and died at the age of 950.
Do not eat pigs. They must be considered unclean; they have divided hoofs, but do not chew the cud. 
No one is to come up with you; no one is to be seen on any part of the mountain; and no sheep or cattle are to graze at the foot of the mountain.” 
(There was no one else who had devoted himself so completely to doing wrong in the LORD's sight as Ahab — all at the urging of his wife Jezebel. 
You are not the only ones with whom the LORD is making this covenant with its obligations. 
After the death of King Ahab of Israel, the country of Moab rebelled against Israel. 
Don't be fools, then, but try to find out what the Lord wants you to do. 
Their legs were straight, and they had hoofs like those of a bull. They shone like polished bronze. 
At that moment Zechariah was able to speak again, and he started praising God. 
“You may eat any kind of fish that has fins and scales, 
Gath, Mareshah, Ziph, 
His breath starts fires burning; : flames leap out of his mouth. 
One day Elisha went to Shunem, where a rich woman lived. She invited him to a meal, and from then on every time he went to Shunem he would have his meals at her house. 
Seven days from now I am going to send rain that will fall for forty days and nights, in order to destroy all the living beings that I have made.” 
“I'll pin him to the wall,” Saul said to himself, and he threw the spear at him twice; but David dodged each time. 
Joash was buried in the royal tombs in David's City, and his son Amaziah succeeded him as king.
Moses and Joshua son of Nun recited this song, so that the people of Israel could hear it. 
But if the vow concerns a ritually unclean animal, which is not acceptable as an offering to the LORD, the man shall take the animal to the priest. 
He brought me home safe and sound; he went to get the money for me from Gabael; he rid my wife of a demon; and he cured your blindness. How much of a bonus should I give him?” 
No one is happy now in the fertile fields. No one shouts or sings in the vineyards. No one tramples grapes to make wine; the shouts of joy are ended.  
But as for me, how wonderful to be near God, : to find protection with the Sovereign LORD : and to proclaim all that he has done!
He measured 500 metres more, and there the stream was so deep I could not wade through it. It was too deep to cross except by swimming. 
“ ‘Do not commit murder. 
So Moses raised his stick towards the sky, and the LORD sent thunder and hail, and lightning struck the ground. The LORD sent 
When Leah realized that she had stopped having children, she gave her slave Zilpah to Jacob as his wife. 
to love her is to keep her laws; to keep her laws is to be certain of immortality; 
then he died and was buried at Bethlehem. 
He lay down under the tree and fell asleep. Suddenly an angel touched him and said, “Wake up and eat.” 
But Israel, you say that what I do isn't right. I am going to judge you by what you do.” 
How great are God's riches! How deep are his wisdom and knowledge! Who can explain his decisions? Who can understand his ways? 
“Now you should choose some man with wisdom and insight and put him in charge of the country. 
Imitate me, then, just as I imitate Christ. 
He said, “Praise the LORD God of Israel! He has kept the promise he made to my father David, when he said, 
The Levites, however, will not receive a share of the land with the rest of you, because their share is to serve as the LORD's priests. And of course, the tribes of Gad, Reuben, and East Manasseh have already received their land east of the Jordan, which Moses, the LORD's servant, gave to them.” 
to which a man could escape and be safe if he had accidentally killed someone who had not been his enemy. He could escape to one of these cities and not be put to death. 
King Solomon gave an order to all the officers in charge of units of a thousand men and of a hundred men, all the government officials, all the heads of families, and all the rest of the people, 
God did not then give Abraham any part of it as his own, not even a square metre of ground, but God promised to give it to him, and that it would belong to him and to his descendants. At the time God made this promise, Abraham had no children. 
and died at the age of 777. 
“Wonderful! I hope the LORD will do this! I certainly hope he will make your prophecy come true and will bring back from Babylonia all the temple treasures and all the people who were taken away as prisoners. 
Study his law, and you will master it, unless you are insincere about it, in which case you will fail. 
So Laban gave a wedding feast and invited everyone. 
to go at once to King David and ask him, ‘Your Majesty, didn't you solemnly promise me that my son Solomon would succeed you as king? How is it, then, that Adonijah has become king?’ ” 
The carpenter says to the goldsmith, ‘Well done!’ : The man who beats the idol smooth : encourages the one who nails it together. : They say, ‘The soldering is good’ — : and they fasten the idol in place with nails. 
He is the one who holds the whole building together and makes it grow into a sacred temple dedicated to the Lord. 
As they tunnel through the rocks, : They discover precious stones. 
The people of Israel captured the Midianite women and children, took their cattle and their flocks, plundered all their wealth, 
The crown will be a memorial in the LORD's Temple in honour of Heldai, Tobijah, Jedaiah, and Josiah.” 
Take your harp, go round the town, : you poor forgotten whore! : Play and sing your songs again : to bring men back once more. 
For six whole months he made a show of the riches of the imperial court with all its splendour and majesty. 
They gave Barnabas the name Zeus, and Paul the name Hermes, because he was the chief speaker. 
They replied, “This is what you should tell them: ‘My little finger is thicker than my father's waist!’ 
When the members of the Council heard this, they were so furious that they wanted to have the apostles put to death. 
What route shall we take for the attack?” : “We will go the long way, through the wilderness of Edom,” Joram answered. 
neither the world above nor the world below — there is nothing in all creation that will ever be able to separate us from the love of God which is ours through Christ Jesus our Lord.
These men ran quickly towards Gibeah; they spread out in the city and killed everyone there. 
which he carried to a land of commerce, and placed in a city of merchants. 
But the Spirit gave Stephen such wisdom that when he spoke, they could not refute him. 
So Moses took his wife and his sons, put them on a donkey, and set out with them for Egypt, carrying the stick that God had told him to take. 
I want to say to those of you who have sinned in the past, and to all the others; I said it before during my second visit to you, but I will say it again now that I am away: the next time I come nobody will escape punishment. 
The prophets are irresponsible and treacherous; the priests defile what is sacred, and twist the law of God to their own advantage. 
The priest answered, “You have nothing to worry about. The LORD is taking care of you on this journey.” 
The people came to Moses and said, “We sinned when we spoke against the LORD and against you. Now pray to the LORD to take these snakes away.” So Moses prayed for the people. 
A bad wife is like a yoke that doesn't fit. Trying to control her is like holding a scorpion. 
So Philip got ready and went. Now an Ethiopian eunuch, who was an important official in charge of the treasury of the queen of Ethiopia, was on his way home. He had been to Jerusalem to worship God and was going back home in his carriage. As he rode along, he was reading from the book of the prophet Isaiah. 
Someone will ask, “How can the dead be raised to life? What kind of body will they have?” 
He shall bring to the priest as his repayment offering to the LORD a male sheep or goat without any defects. Its value is to be determined according to the official standard. 
Now, it is actually being said that there is sexual immorality among you so terrible that not even the heathen would be guilty of it. I am told that a man is sleeping with his stepmother! 
The second river is the Gihon; it flows round the country of Cush.  
The next day a young man arrived from Saul's camp. To show his grief, he had torn his clothes and put earth on his head. He went to David and bowed to the ground in respect. 
I said, “I am falling”; : but your constant love, O LORD, held me up. 
Remember your promises and do not despise us; : do not bring disgrace on Jerusalem, : the place of your glorious throne. : Do not break the covenant you made with us. 
“Suppose one of you has a hundred sheep and loses one of them — what do you do? You leave the other 99 sheep in the pasture and go looking for the one that got lost until you find it.  
He went to his father's house at Ophrah, and there on the top of a single stone he killed his seventy brothers, Gideon's sons. But Jotham, Gideon's youngest son, hid and was not killed. 
Owls will build their nests, lay eggs, hatch their young, and care for them there. Vultures will gather there, one after another. 
“This is the covenant that I will make with them : in the days to come, says the Lord: : I will put my laws in their hearts : and write them on their minds.” 
Actually, there is no “other gospel”, but I say this because there are some people who are upsetting you and trying to change the gospel of Christ. 
If someone tries to harm someone else by false accusation, 
Jesus said to Peter, “I tell you that before the cock crows twice tonight, you will say three times that you do not know me.” 
Our God is coming, but not in silence; : a raging fire is in front of him, : a furious storm is round him. 
Certainly not! God must be true, even though every human being is a liar. As the scripture says, : “You must be shown to be right when you speak; : you must win your case when you are being tried.” 
The building was crowded with men and women. All five Philistine kings were there, and there were about 3,000 men and women on the roof, watching Samson entertain them. 
I will give you a sacrifice of thanksgiving : and offer my prayer to you. 
He was buried in his own part of the land at Timnath Serah in the hill country of Ephraim north of Mount Gaash. 
The angel came to her and said, “Peace be with you! The Lord is with you and has greatly blessed you!” 
Then you will say to yourself, : ‘Who bore all these children for me? : I lost my children and could have no more. : I was exiled and driven away — : who brought these children up? : I was left all alone — : where did these children come from?’ ” 
Every man in Ai went after the Israelites, and the city was left wide open, with no one to defend it. 
Error and darkness have been with sinners from the beginning, and those who enjoy evil will have it with them into their old age. 
I have always been ready to welcome my people, who stubbornly do what is wrong and go their own way. 
“I have sinned against the LORD,” David said. : Nathan replied, “The LORD forgives you; you will not die. 
Shall I go on waiting when they are silent? : They stand there with nothing more to say. 
And the LORD says to those foreigners who become part of his people, who love him and serve him, who observe the Sabbath and faithfully keep his covenant
Two winged creatures were made of olive wood and placed in the Most Holy Place, each one 4.4 metres tall. 
Then the people of Israel said to Samuel, “Where are the people who said that Saul should not be our king? Hand them over to us, and we will kill them!” 
Abraham left everything he owned to Isaac; 
And so the temple walls, when seen from the outside, seemed to have the same thickness all the way to the top. Against the Temple's outer wall, on the outside of the rooms, two wide stairways were built, so that it was possible to go from the lower storey to the middle and the upper storeys.  
I have placed in the Temple the Covenant Box, which contains the stone tablets of the covenant which the LORD made with the people of Israel.” 
Keep walking on straight paths, so that the lame foot may not be disabled, but instead be healed. 
Be patient, then, my brothers and sisters, until the Lord comes. See how patient a farmer is as he waits for his land to produce precious crops. He waits patiently for the autumn and spring rains. 
Don't you see what is happening to you? 
Who can measure his majestic power? Who can tell the whole story of his merciful actions? 
A group of prophets who lived there went to Elisha and asked him, “Do you know that the LORD is going to take your master away from you today?” : “Yes, I know,” Elisha answered. “But let's not talk about it.” 
Others try to hide their sins, : but I have never concealed mine. 
Like every human being, I am mortal. I am a descendant of that first man, who was made from the soil. I was conceived from the sperm of a man, in the pleasure of intercourse. For nine months my flesh took shape in the blood of my mother's womb. 
You shall always obey the laws and commands that I wrote for you. You shall not obey other gods, 
But it also applies to you: every husband must love his wife as himself, and every wife must respect her husband.
“Remember the teachings of my servant Moses, the laws and commands which I gave him at Mount Sinai for all the people of Israel to obey. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “tell the Israelites that their land is unholy, and so I am punishing it in my anger. 
Judah went up to Joseph and said, “Please, sir, allow me to speak with you freely. Don't be angry with me; you are like the king himself. 
He made some days holy and important, and made other days ordinary. 
Why should we ever complain when we are punished for our sin? 
Righteous men will condemn them on the charge of adultery and murder, because they practise adultery and their hands are stained with blood.” 
Here are proverbs that will help you to recognize wisdom and good advice, and understand sayings with deep meaning. 
The apostles returned and met with Jesus, and told him all they had done and taught. 
While the flames were going up from the altar, Manoah and his wife saw the LORD's angel go up towards heaven in the flames. Manoah realized then that the man had been the LORD's angel, and he and his wife threw themselves face downwards on the ground. They never saw the angel again. 
But the Lord, in his wisdom, made them all different and gave them different tasks. 
God in his mercy has given us this work to do, and so we are not discouraged. 
The evil that the people have done prevents them from returning to their God. Idolatry has a powerful hold on them, and they do not acknowledge the LORD. 
He kept on urging them, and finally they went with him to his house. Lot ordered his servants to bake some bread and prepare a fine meal for the guests. When it was ready, they ate it. 
Amon's officials plotted against him and assassinated him in the palace. 
Now, his own people hated him, and so they sent messengers after him to say, ‘We don't want this man to be our king.’ 
The Jewish governor told them that they could not eat the food offered to God until there was a priest who could use the Urim and Thummim. 
After that, he shall kill the goat for the sin offering for the people, bring its blood into the Most Holy Place, and sprinkle it on the lid and then in front of the Covenant Box, as he did with the bull's blood. 
The LORD says, “The people of Gaza have sinned again and again, and for this I will certainly punish them. They carried off a whole nation and sold them as slaves to the people of Edom. 
Set up signs and mark the road; : find again the way by which you left. : Come back, people of Israel, : come home to the towns you left. 
hear their prayer. Listen to them in your home in heaven and forgive them. You alone know the thoughts of the human heart. Deal with each person as he deserves, 
“You have heard that it was said, ‘An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.’  
“Do not put the LORD your God to the test, as you did at Massah. 
There will be those who will say to you, ‘Look, over there!’ or, ‘Look, over here!’ But don't go out looking for it.  
To get this done I toil and struggle, using the mighty strength which Christ supplies and which is at work in me.
An Israelite who kills a cow or a sheep or a goat as an offering to the LORD anywhere except at the entrance of the Tent of the LORD's presence has broken the Law. He has shed blood and shall no longer be considered one of God's people. 
Those who have something will be given more, and those who have nothing will have taken away from them even the little they have.” 
On that same day Noah and his wife went into the boat with their three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth, and their wives. 
I, the Lord, will bring the emperor of Assyria and all his forces to attack Judah. They will advance like the flood waters of the River Euphrates, overflowing all its banks. 
Drinking too much makes you loud and foolish. It's stupid to get drunk. 
And Reuel became the ancestor of the tribes of Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. 
The rich and the poor have this in common: the LORD made them both. 
There is no justice where a witness is determined to hurt someone. Wicked people love the taste of evil. 
They answered him, “Our father is Abraham.” :   “If you really were Abraham's children,” Jesus replied, “you would do  the same things that he did.  
“Be on your guard against the teachers of the Law, who like to walk about in their long robes and love to be greeted with respect in the market place; who choose the reserved seats in the synagogues and the best places at feasts;  
to your godliness add Christian affection; and to your Christian affection add love. 
But many who heard the message believed; and the number of men grew to about 5,000. 
None of them grows tired; none of them stumbles. They never doze or sleep. Not a belt is loose; not a sandal strap is broken. 
perfect in their splendour. He granted him the symbols of authority: the linen shorts, the shirt, and the robe with the pomegranates round the hem. 
Today is the 24th day of the ninth month, the day that the foundation of the Temple has been completed. See what is going to happen from now on. 
When they saw him walking on the water, they were terrified. “It's a ghost!” they said, and screamed with fear. 
There he performed miracles and wonders : to punish the king and all his officials. 
Whenever Laban said, ‘The speckled goats shall be your wages,’ all the flocks produced speckled young. When he said, ‘The striped goats shall be your wages,’ all the flocks produced striped young. 
Clan of Hashum: Mattenai, Mattattah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Manasseh, and Shimei 
Don't eat at the table of a stingy person or be greedy for the fine food he serves. 
Solomon appointed twelve men as district governors in Israel. They were to provide food from their districts for the king and his household, each man being responsible for one month out of the year. 
“No one uses a piece of new cloth to patch up an old coat, because the new patch will shrink and tear off some of the old cloth, making an even bigger hole.  
They must wash their hands and feet, so that they will not die. This is a rule which they and their descendants are to observe for ever.” 
“It shall be done,” answered Benaiah, “and may the LORD your God confirm it. 
I have heard your request about Ishmael, so I will bless him and give him many children and many descendants. He will be the father of twelve princes, and I will make a great nation of his descendants. 
All over Egypt the hail struck down everything in the open, including all the people and all the animals. It beat down all the plants in the fields and broke all the trees. 
At that time I will destroy every nation that tries to attack Jerusalem. 
So they cut off the anchors and let them sink in the sea, and at the same time they untied the ropes that held the steering oars. Then they raised the sail at the front of the ship so that the wind would blow the ship forward, and we headed for shore. 
You are my God, and I give you thanks; : I will proclaim your greatness. 
Yes, grass withers and flowers fade, : but the word of our God endures for ever.” 
People will do these things to you because they have not known either the Father or me.  
Moses had given a part of the land to the families of half the tribe of Manasseh as their possession. 
Our chief priests and rulers handed him over to be sentenced to death, and he was crucified. 
Sir, if any one of us is found to have it, he will be put to death, and the rest of us will become your slaves.” 
I will make a bargain with you in the name of the emperor. I will give you 2,000 horses if you can find that many men to ride them! 
as the younger men had advised. He said, “My father placed heavy burdens on you; I will make them even heavier. He beat you with a whip; I'll flog you with a horsewhip!” 
Is there anything I failed to do for it? Then why did it produce sour grapes and not the good grapes I expected? 
The LORD gives strength to his people : and blesses them with peace.
But, Almighty LORD, you test people justly; : you know what is in their hearts and minds. : So let me see you take revenge on my enemies, : for I have placed my cause in your hands. 
Then the men left and went to a place where they could look down at Sodom, and Abraham went with them to send them on their way. 
Micaiah answered, “I can see the army of Israel scattered over the hills like sheep without a shepherd. And the LORD said, ‘These men have no leader; let them go home in peace.’ ” 
They will always be prosperous, : and their children will possess the land. 
My devotion to your Temple burns in me like a fire; : the insults which are hurled at you fall on me. 
Early the following morning they saw that the statue had again fallen down in front of the Covenant Box. This time its head and both its arms were broken off and were lying in the doorway; only the body was left. 
“You are always ready to speak evil; : you never hesitate to tell lies. 
I, the Sovereign LORD, declare that I am your enemy. I will take my sheep away from you and never again let you be their shepherds; never again will I let you take care only of yourselves. I will rescue my sheep from you and not let you eat them. 
But when the Jews in Thessalonica heard that Paul had preached the word of God in Berea also, they came there and started exciting and stirring up the mob. 
and he cried out to the prophet from Judah, “The LORD says that you disobeyed him and did not do what he commanded. 
“Your right-hand, LORD, is awesome in power; : it breaks the enemy in pieces. 
Hunt them down and wipe them off the earth!”
so he burnt animal sacrifices and grain offerings on it, and poured a wine offering and the blood of a fellowship offering on it. 
He upsets the plans of cunning people, : and traps the wise in their own schemes, : so that nothing they do succeeds; 
I planted you like a choice vine : from the very best seed. : But look what you have become! : You are like a rotten, worthless vine. 
“The ephah for dry measure is to be equal to the bath for liquid measure. The standard is the homer.
Babylonia was like a gold cup in my hand, making the whole world drunk. The nations drank its wine and went out of their minds. 
When they leaned on you, you broke, pierced their armpits, and made them wrench their backs.  
The people of Israel and the Levites are to take the contributions of corn, wine, and olive oil to the storerooms where the utensils for the Temple are kept and where the priests who are on duty, the temple guards, and the members of the temple choir have their quarters. : We will not neglect the house of our God.
Jacob packed up all he had and went to Beersheba, where he offered sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac. 
They are sure to hear that you have arrived. What should be done, then? 
Their bodies waste away to nothing; : you can see all their bones; 
But I tell you that Elijah has already come and people did not recognize him, but treated him just as they pleased. In the same way they will also ill-treat the Son of Man.” 
But all other small things that have wings and also crawl must be considered unclean. 
O God, you are my God, : and I long for you. : My whole being desires you; : like a dry, worn-out, and waterless land, : my soul is thirsty for you. 
The man said, “Your name will no longer be Jacob. You have struggled with God and with men, and you have won; so your name will be Israel.” 
“Unfaithful people, come back; you belong to me. I will take one of you from each town and two from each clan, and I will bring you back to Mount Zion. 
So we cooked my son and ate him. The next day I told her that we would eat her son, but she had hidden him!” 
Their teaching will lead you when you travel, protect you at night, and advise you during the day. 
Save me, LORD! Help me now! 
This is what I say: It costs nothing to be wise. 
“Tell the people of Israel to give you twelve sticks, one from the leader of each tribe. Write each man's name on his stick 
But our people are dying of thirst. They forced us to say what we did and to make a solemn promise, which we cannot break. 
three times I was whipped by the Romans; and once I was stoned. I have been in three shipwrecks, and once I spent 24 hours in the water. 
He has stretched out his mighty arm : and scattered the proud with all their plans. 
Repent, then, of this evil plan of yours, and pray to the Lord that he will forgive you for thinking such a thing as this. 
I said, “There is no hope for me! I am doomed because every word that passes my lips is sinful, and I live among a people whose every word is sinful. And yet, with my own eyes, I have seen the King, the LORD Almighty!” 
Solomon used the wood to make stairs for the Temple and for his palace, and to make harps and lyres for the musicians. Nothing like that had ever been seen before in the land of Judah.) 
I answered, “Very well, then. I will pray to the LORD our God, just as you have asked, and whatever he says, I will tell you. I will not keep back anything from you.” 
When the time drew near for him to die, he called for his son Joseph and said to him, “Place your hand between my thighs and make a solemn vow that you will not bury me in Egypt. 
Then Gideon said to God, “Don't be angry with me; let me speak just once more. Please let me make one more test with the wool. This time let the wool be dry, and the ground be wet.” 
Instead, new wine must be poured into fresh wineskins!  
because I know that by means of your prayers and the help which comes from the Spirit of Jesus Christ I shall be set free. 
I looked for someone who could build a wall, who could stand in the places where the walls have crumbled and defend the land when my anger is about to destroy it, but I could find no one. 
The city and everything in it must be totally destroyed as an offering to the LORD. Only the prostitute Rahab and her household will be spared, because she hid our spies. 
But our ancestors had been told in advance of what would happen that night, so that they would be cheered and encouraged by confident trust in your promises to them. 
But not all have accepted the Good News. Isaiah himself said, “Lord, who believed our message?” 
And beat me again and again with merciless blows. 
God bought you for a price; so do not become slaves of human beings. 
“None of the descendants of Aaron who has a dreaded skin disease or a discharge may eat any of the sacred offerings until he is ritually clean. Any priest is unclean if he touches anything which is unclean through contact with a corpse or if he has an emission of semen 
“They will be my people,” says the LORD Almighty. “On the day when I act, they will be my very own. I will be merciful to them, as a father is merciful to the son who serves him. 
You certainly know how to chase after lovers. Even the worst of women can learn from you. 
When the people found Jesus on the other side of the lake, they said to him, “Teacher, when did you get here?” 
and the LORD said to me, “Mortal man, pay attention to everything you see and hear. I am going to tell you the rules and regulations for the Temple. Note carefully which persons are allowed to go in and out of the Temple and which persons are not. 
Uzziel son of Harhaiah, a goldsmith, built the next section. : Hananiah, a maker of perfumes, built the next section, as far as Broad Wall. 
But the Law has nothing to do with faith. Instead, as the scripture says, “Whoever does everything the Law requires will live.” 
The following are the names of these twelve officers and the districts they were in charge of: : Benhur: the hill country of Ephraim 
Many will give up their faith at that time; they will betray one another and hate one another.  
“But my people stubbornly refused to listen. They closed their minds 
When that day comes, you will ask him in my name; and I do not say that I will ask him on your behalf,  
The LORD made a solemn promise and will not take it back: : “You will be a priest for ever : in the priestly order of Melchizedek.” 
I am like all others who are about to die; : all my strength is gone. 
Then tell them that I, the LORD, am going to fill the people in this land with wine until they are drunk: the kings, who are David's descendants, the priests, the prophets, and all the people of Jerusalem. 
They called out in a loud voice: “Salvation comes from our God, who sits on the throne, and from the Lamb!” 
Your life will always be in danger. Day and night you will be filled with terror, and you will live in constant fear of death. 
He took a census of all the male Levites aged thirty or older. The total was 38,000. 
What it says is this: “God's message is near you, on your lips and in your heart” — that is, the message of faith that we preach. 
“Do not ill-treat a foreigner; you know how it feels to be a foreigner, because you were foreigners in Egypt. 
They will rule over nations and peoples, and the Lord will be their king for ever. 
“Do not think that I have come to bring peace to the world. No, I did not come to bring peace, but a sword.  
Now, on the day when the dead rise to life, whose wife will she be? All seven of them had married her.” 
Be sure that you obey these commands; do not forget that you were slaves in Egypt. 
Moses told this to the Israelites, but they would not listen to him, because their spirit had been broken by their cruel slavery. 
Those who reject me and do not accept my message have one who will judge them. The words I have spoken will be their judge on the last day!  
In order to enforce the laws written in the book that the High Priest Hilkiah had found in the Temple, King Josiah removed from Jerusalem and the rest of Judah all the mediums and fortune tellers, and all the household gods, idols, and all other pagan objects of worship. 
Then the two spies came down from the hills, crossed the river, and went back to Joshua. They told him everything that had happened, 
The tenth day of the seventh month is the day when the annual ritual is to be performed to take away the sins of the people. On that day do not eat anything at all; come together for worship, and present a food offering to the Lord. 
They would tremble like water boiling over a hot fire. Come and reveal your power to your enemies, and make the nations tremble at your presence! 
“How evil and godless are the people of this day!” Jesus exclaimed. “You ask me for a miracle? No! The only miracle you will be given is the miracle of the prophet Jonah.  
You are always planning something evil, and you can hardly wait to do it. You never hesitate to murder innocent people. You leave ruin and destruction wherever you go, 
and they were followed by Maaseiah, Shemaiah, Eleazar, Uzzi, Jehohanan, Malchijah, Elam, and Ezer. The singers, led by Jezrahiah, sang at the top of their voices. 
“Stand back from these people, and I will destroy them on the spot!” : The two of them bowed down with their faces to the ground, 
Just put the fish's gall-bladder on his eyes like a plaster. The medicine will make the white film shrivel up so that you can peel it off, and your father will then regain his eyesight.” 
Some people are too lazy to put food in their own mouths. 
Have any people ever lived after hearing a god speak to them from a fire, as you have? 
On the first of these days you shall gather for worship and do none of your daily work. 
because you, LORD, are supreme for ever. 
Look, O LORD! Why are you punishing us like this? : Women are eating the bodies of the children they loved! : Priests and prophets are being killed in the Temple itself! 
I will let soldiers from cruel nations draw their swords and kill all your people. All your people and everything else that you are proud of will be destroyed. 
This was done to make the scripture come true: “Not one of his bones will be broken.” 
Everyone who heard of it thought about it and asked, “What is this child going to be?” For it was plain that the Lord's power was upon him. 
If you drink it in moderation and at the right time, it can raise your spirits and make you cheerful, 
Azariah (the one who served in the Temple which King Solomon built in Jerusalem), 
And now I have one request to make; please do not refuse me.” : “What is it?” Bathsheba asked. 
Saul was just coming in from the field with his oxen, and he asked, “What's wrong? Why is everyone crying?” They told him what the messengers from Jabesh had reported. 
The Lord made him as glorious as the angels and made his enemies fear him. 
While Shalmaneser was still emperor, I took good care of my fellow-Jews whenever they were in need. 
For John is the one of whom the scripture says: ‘God said, I will send my messenger ahead of you to open the way for you.’  
Then the angel stood where the road narrowed between two vineyards and had a stone wall on each side. 
No jealous desire to guard my own knowledge will make me hold back anything. Wisdom has nothing in common with such an attitude. 
Lord, where are the former proofs of your love? : Where are the promises you made to David? 
You set a boundary they can never pass, : to keep them from covering the earth again. 
Offer with them all the other offerings required for the first day. 
All these towns were fortified with high walls, gates, and bars to lock the gates, and there were also many villages without walls. 
Now then, you and the Council send word to the Roman commander to bring Paul down to you, pretending that you want to get more accurate information about him. But we will be ready to kill him before he ever gets here.” 
Free me from their insults and scorn, : because I have kept your laws. 
They took the bull that was brought to them, prepared it, and prayed to Baal until noon. They shouted, “Answer us, Baal!” and kept dancing round the altar they had built. But no answer came. 
(They still did not understand the scripture which said that he must rise from death.) 
Some men came carrying a paralysed man on a bed, and they tried to take him into the house and put him in front of Jesus. 
Someone designed the ship out of a desire for profit, and a craftsman built it with skill. 
You will always have descendants, and I will make your kingdom last for ever. Your dynasty will never end.’ ” 
He will settle disputes among great nations. : They will hammer their swords into ploughs : and their spears into pruning knives. : Nations will never again go to war, : never prepare for battle again. 
One day four months later, when Emperor Artaxerxes was dining, I took the wine to him. He had never seen me look sad before, 
then he brought it on a dish and gave it to the girl, who gave it to her mother. 
Anyone who escapes being put to death by Hazael will be killed by Jehu, and anyone who escapes Jehu will be killed by Elisha. 
and he ruled for three years in Jerusalem. His mother was Maacah, the daughter of Absalom. 
What makes you think we are as stupid as cattle? 
“Tobias, my son, leave Nineveh now. Do not stay here. As soon as you bury your mother beside me, leave; do not stay another night within the city limits. It is a wicked city and full of immorality; the people here have no sense of shame. Remember what Nadab did to Ahikar his own uncle who had brought him up. He tried to kill Ahikar and forced him to go into hiding in a tomb. Ahikar came back into the light of day, but God sent Nadab down into everlasting darkness for what he had done. Ahikar escaped the deadly trap which Nadab had set for him, because Ahikar had given generously to the poor. But Nadab fell into that fatal trap and it destroyed him. 
Then he defeated the king of the Syrian state of Zobah, Hadadezer son of Rehob, as Hadadezer was on his way to restore his control over the territory by the upper Euphrates. 
The Israelites fled from the Judeans, and God let the Judeans overpower them. 
For you gave him authority over all humanity, so that he might give eternal life to all those you gave him.  
If the righteous really are God's children, God will save them from their enemies. 
He stationed troops in the fortified cities of Judah, in the Judean countryside, and in the cities which Asa had captured in the territory of Ephraim. 
Saul answered, “I have done wrong. Come back, David, my son! I will never harm you again, because you have spared my life tonight. I have been a fool! I have done a terrible thing!” 
to say to Aaron, “None of your descendants who has any physical defect may present the food offering to me. This applies for all time to come. 
In my trouble I called to the LORD; : I called to my God for help. : In his temple he heard my voice; : he listened to my cry for help. 
Kings will be like fathers to you; : queens will be like mothers. : They will bow low before you and honour you; : they will humbly show their respect for you. : Then you will know that I am the LORD; : no one who waits for my help will be disappointed.” 
“The LORD will bless everything you do. 
David, wearing only a linen cloth round his waist, danced with all his might to honour the LORD. 
You certainly have not brought us into a fertile land or given us fields and vineyards as our possession, and now you are trying to deceive us. We will not come!” 
The LORD your God is going with you, and he will give you victory.’ 
All over the land they lay half-dead and let it be known why they were dying. 
When everything was arranged for the Passover, the priests and the Levites took their places, as commanded by the king. 
They are always plotting evil, : always stirring up quarrels. 
The people gave money to pay the stonemasons and the carpenters and gave food, drink, and olive oil to be sent to the cities of Tyre and Sidon in exchange for cedar trees from Lebanon, which were to be brought by sea to Joppa. All this was done with the permission of Cyrus, emperor of Persia. 
They are hopelessly evil in what they do, just as they were at Gibeah. God will remember their sin and punish them for it. 
Dear friends, if this is how God loved us, then we should love one another. 
On the ground a snare is hidden; : a trap has been set in their path. 
Two days later David and his men arrived back at Ziklag. The Amalekites had raided southern Judah and attacked Ziklag. They had burnt down the town 
but when she came to Elisha she bowed down before him and took hold of his feet. Gehazi was about to push her away, but Elisha said, “Leave her alone. Can't you see she's deeply distressed? And the LORD has not told me a thing about it.” 
What did you go out to see? A man dressed up in fancy clothes? People who dress like that live in palaces!  
The entrance room was 4.5 metres deep and nine metres wide, as wide as the sanctuary itself. 
Then the women remembered his words, 
But when all your words come true — and they will come true — then they will know that a prophet has been among them.”
There was no water where they camped, so the people gathered round Moses and Aaron 
O God, your march of triumph is seen by all, : the procession of God, my king, into his sanctuary. 
And I will test the third that survives and will purify them as silver is purified by fire. I will test them as gold is tested. Then they will pray to me, and I will answer them. I will tell them that they are my people, and they will confess that I am their God.”
A curtain for the Most Holy Place was made of linen and of other material, which was dyed blue, purple, and red, with designs of the winged creatures worked into it. 
If someone's bull kills someone else's bull, the two of them shall sell the live bull and divide the money; they shall also divide up the meat from the dead animal. 
The wicked who oppress others : will be in torment as long as they live. 
So Joab went to the king and said to him, “What have you done? Abner came to you — why did you let him go like that? 
Then Balak said to Balaam, “Come with me to another place from which you can see only some of the Israelites. Curse them for me from there.” 
“We're done for!” King Joram exclaimed. “The LORD has put the three of us at the mercy of the king of Moab!” 
Thoughtless words can wound as deeply as any sword, but wisely spoken words can heal. 
While the battle raged on, King Ahab remained propped up in his chariot, facing the Syrians. At sunset he died.
Then he made prisoners of the king's daughters and all the rest of the people in Mizpah, whom Nebuzaradan the commanding officer had placed under the care of Gedaliah. Ishmael took them prisoner and started off in the direction of the territory of Ammon. 
If you promise a friend something because you are too bashful to say no, you're making an enemy needlessly. 
“I am a foreigner living here among you; sell me some land, so that I can bury my wife.” 
But if she is innocent, she will not be harmed and will be able to bear children. 
His officials who plotted against him killed him at the house built on the land that was filled in on the east side of Jerusalem, on the road that goes down to Silla. 
You have murdered so many people here in the city that the streets are full of corpses. 
All the hills where crops used to grow will be so overgrown with thorns that no one will go there. It will be a place where cattle and sheep graze.”
Machir found a wife for Huppim and one for Shuppim. His sister's name was Maacah. Machir's second son was Zelophehad, and he had only daughters. 
Elijah ordered, “Seize the prophets of Baal; don't let any of them get away!” The people seized them all, and Elijah led them down to the River Kishon and killed them. 
Hezekiah gave the order for the burnt offering to be presented; and as the offering began, the people sang praise to the LORD, and the musicians began to play the trumpets and all the other instruments. 
What does this ‘a little while’ mean? We don't know what he is talking about!” 
because the LORD hates people who do evil, but he takes righteous people into his confidence. 
A rich person will use you as long as he can profit from it, but when you need him, he will leave you helpless. 
Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah, and Mikloth, 
Was a wicked person's light ever put out? : Did one of them ever meet with disaster? : Did God ever punish the wicked in anger 
This stone is of great value for you that believe; but for those who do not believe: : “The stone which the builders rejected as worthless : turned out to be the most important of all.” 
So they answered Jesus, “We don't know.” : And he said to them, “Neither will I tell you, then, by what right I do these things. 
‘Well done, you good and faithful servant!’ said his master. ‘You have been faithful in managing small amounts, so I will put you in charge of large amounts. Come on in and share my happiness!’ 
The Assyrian official told them that the emperor wanted to know what made King Hezekiah so confident. 
But they prayed to the merciful Lord, the Holy One in heaven, who quickly answered their prayers and sent Isaiah to save them. 
Elisha went on to Mount Carmel, and later returned to Samaria.
And now may the LORD be kind and faithful to you. I too will treat you well because of what you have done. 
But Jesus said, “Someone touched me, for I knew it when power went out of me.”  
“When we took possession of the land, I assigned to the tribes of Reuben and Gad the territory north of the town of Aroer near the River Arnon and part of the hill country of Gilead, along with its towns. 
You have not paid any wages to those who work in your fields. Listen to their complaints! The cries of those who gather in your crops have reached the ears of God, the Lord Almighty. 
Then when you have become numerous in that land, people will no longer talk about my Covenant Box. They will no longer think about it or remember it; they will not even need it, nor will they make another one. 
Suddenly the power of the LORD made him strong, and he went down to Ashkelon, where he killed thirty men, stripped them, and gave their fine clothes to the men who had solved the riddle. After that, he went back home, furious about what had happened, 
You did not welcome me with a kiss, but she has not stopped kissing my feet since I came.  
Hear my prayer; : listen to my cry for help! 
Get good advice and you will succeed; don't go charging into battle without a plan. 
No wonder, then, that everyone stands in awe of him, : and that he ignores those who claim to be wise.
Sacrifice one of the lambs in the morning and the other in the evening. 
So David hid in the fields. At the New Moon Festival, King Saul came to the meal 
You must stay at the entrance of the Tent day and night for seven days, doing what the LORD has commanded. If you don't, you will die. This is what the LORD has commanded me.” 
He also took a great quantity of bronze from Tibhath and Kun, cities ruled by Hadadezer. (Solomon later used this bronze to make the tank, the columns, and the bronze utensils for the Temple.) 
But when you punish the wicked, : punish also those who abandon your ways. : Peace be with Israel!
Instead, they find joy in obeying the Law of the LORD, : and they study it day and night. 
So David gave orders to Joab, the commander of his army: “Go with your officers through all the tribes of Israel from one end of the country to the other, and count the people. I want to know how many there are.” 
This evil impulse we have! Why was it ever formed? How did it manage to cover the earth with deceit? 
But Amaziah refused to listen. It was God's will for Amaziah to be defeated, because he had worshipped the Edomite idols. 
As soon as King Hezekiah heard their report, he tore his clothes in grief, put on sackcloth, and went to the Temple of the LORD. 
In union with him you too are being built together with all the others into a place where God lives through his Spirit.
You were chosen according to the purpose of God the Father and were made a holy people by his Spirit, to obey Jesus Christ and be purified by his blood. : May grace and peace be yours in full measure. 
The border then went down to the stream of Kanah. The cities south of the stream belonged to Ephraim, even though they were in the territory of Manasseh. The border of Manasseh proceeded along the north side of the stream and ended at the Mediterranean Sea. 
Wives, submit to your husbands as to the Lord. 
Keep back a few hairs and wrap them in the hem of your clothes. 
O Lord, you have always been our home. 
Without delay King Hezekiah assembled the leading men of the city, and together they went to the Temple. 
and God met him. Balaam said to him, “I have built the seven altars and offered a bull and a ram on each.” 
Those who fear the Lord are always ready to serve him. They humble themselves before him, and say, 
There were three gates on each side: three on the east, three on the south, three on the north, and three on the west. 
Until now you have not asked for anything in my name; ask and you will receive, so that your happiness may be complete. 
Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah, 
“You did business in Spain and took silver, iron, tin, and lead in payment for your abundant goods. 
Don't forget the angry shouts of your enemies, : the continuous noise made by your foes.
1000 silver bowls for offerings 
“Ever since I was young, : my enemies have persecuted me cruelly, : but they have not overcome me. 
Look around you and see what is happening: : Your people are gathering to come home! : Your sons will come from far away; : Your daughters will be carried like children. 
So every time the creatures moved or stopped or rose in the air, the wheels did exactly the same. 
The LORD has hidden himself from his people, but I trust him and place my hope in him. 
It hit the ship, and since it was impossible to keep the ship headed into the wind, we gave up trying and let it be carried along by the wind. 
Indulging in luxuries, wine, and rich food will never make you wealthy. 
On one occasion the followers of John the Baptist and the Pharisees were fasting. Some people came to Jesus and asked him, “Why is it that the disciples of John the Baptist and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but yours do not?” 
Leah became pregnant and gave birth to a son. She said, “The LORD has seen my trouble, and now my husband will love me”; so she named him Reuben.  
He answered, “As you know, Your Majesty, I am crippled. I told my servant to saddle my donkey so that I could ride along with you, but he betrayed me. 
It was allowed to fight against God's people and to defeat them, and it was given authority over every tribe, nation, language, and race. 
At the noise of the horsemen and bowmen : everyone will run away. : Some will run to the forest, : others will climb up among the rocks. : Every town will be left empty, : and no one will live in them again. 
It's useless to bring your offerings. I am disgusted with the smell of the incense you burn. I cannot stand your New Moon Festivals, your Sabbaths, and your religious gatherings; they are all corrupted by your sins. 
It is no good for the soil or for the manure heap; it is thrown away. Listen, then, if you have ears!”
They said this to trap Jesus, so that they could accuse him. But he bent over and wrote on the ground with his finger. 
When I looked among the gods, : none of them had a thing to say; : not one could answer the questions I asked. 
Jacob moved on and set up his camp on the other side of the tower of Eder. 
The angel of the LORD said to Satan, “May the LORD condemn you, Satan! May the LORD, who loves Jerusalem, condemn you. This man is like a stick snatched from the fire.” 
And so the Sovereign LORD Almighty says, “There will be wailing and cries of sorrow in the city streets. Even farmers will be called to mourn the dead along with those who are paid to mourn. 
Mary stood crying outside the tomb. While she was still crying, she bent over and looked in the tomb 
Tell us, is it against our Law for us to pay taxes to the Roman Emperor, or not?” 
Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat, 
A part of the land west of the Jordan was assigned to some of the families descended from Joseph's elder son Manasseh. Machir, the father of Gilead, was Manasseh's eldest son and a military hero, so Gilead and Bashan, east of the Jordan, were assigned to him. 
The men of Israel and Judah shouted and ran after them, pursuing them all the way to Gath and to the gates of Ekron. The Philistines fell wounded all along the road that leads to Shaaraim, as far as Gath and Ekron. 
But it was Solomon who built him a house. 
Drinks were served in gold cups, no two of them alike, and the king was generous with the royal wine. 
So David and his 600 men went over at once to Achish son of Maoch, king of Gath. 
For they did not dare ask him any more questions. 
The Sovereign LORD says, “I will destroy the idols and the false gods in Memphis. There will be no one to rule over Egypt, and I will terrify all the people. 
What had already been brought was more than enough to finish all the work. 
The servant said to himself, ‘My master is going to dismiss me from my job. What shall I do? I am not strong enough to dig ditches, and I am ashamed to beg.  
We must not be like Cain; he belonged to the Evil One and murdered his own brother Abel. Why did Cain murder him? Because the things he himself did were wrong, but the things his brother did were right. 
These corner frames were joined at the bottom and connected all the way to the top. The two frames that formed the two corners were made in this way. 
from the clan of Merari came Asaiah, in charge of 220; 
Stupid people always think they are right. Wise people listen to advice. 
Each year you and your family are to eat them in the LORD's presence at the one place of worship. 
The LORD says, “The people of Damascus have sinned again and again, and for this I will certainly punish them. They treated the people of Gilead with savage cruelty. 
Maarath, Bethanoth, and Eltekon: six cities, along with the towns round them. 
And the seeds sown in the good soil stand for those who hear the message and understand it: they bear fruit, some as much as 100, others sixty, and others thirty.” 
But he sent a man ahead of them, : Joseph, who had been sold as a slave. 
Then he said to his sons, “Saddle my donkey for me.” They did so, 
They answered, “The man kept asking about us and our family, ‘Is your father still living? Have you got another brother?’ We had to answer his questions. How could we know that he would tell us to bring our brother with us?” 
They have lived here and have built a temple to honour you, knowing 
One-tenth of all the produce of the land, whether grain or fruit, belongs to the LORD. 
Then all the people from that territory asked Jesus to go away, because they were terribly afraid. So Jesus got into the boat and left. 
Better not to promise at all than to make a promise and not keep it. 
Moses took half the blood of the animals and put it in bowls; and the other half he threw against the altar. 
But I have told you this, so that when the time comes for them to do these things, you will remember that I told you. :   “I did not tell you these things at the beginning, for I was with you.  
Miriam sang for them: : “Sing to the LORD, because he has won a glorious victory; : he has thrown the horses and their riders into the sea.” 
Hear me, LORD, when I call to you! : Be merciful and answer me! 
I will make his kingdom last for ever if he continues to obey carefully all my laws and commands as he does now.’ 
The LORD became furiously angry, and in his great anger he uprooted them from their land and threw them into a foreign land, and there they are today.’ 
and he said to them, “The LORD has commanded that tomorrow is a holy day of rest, dedicated to him. Bake today what you want to bake and boil what you want to boil. Whatever is left should be put aside and kept for tomorrow.” 
Jesus ordered the spirit, “Be quiet, and come out of the man!” 
Love wisdom, and she will make you great. Embrace her, and she will bring you honour. 
So those people worshipped the LORD, but they also worshipped their idols; and to this day their descendants continue to do the same.
“ ‘God's curse on anyone who leads a blind person in the wrong direction.’ : “And all the people will answer, ‘Amen!’ 
But they did not understand what this teaching meant, and they were afraid to ask him. 
“When that day comes and Egypt is destroyed, I will send messengers in ships to arouse the unsuspecting people of Ethiopia, and they will be terrified. That day is coming!” 
When we arrived in Rome, Paul was allowed to live by himself with a soldier guarding him. 
If they had enough intelligence to speculate about the nature of the universe, why did they never find the Lord of all things? 
So the LORD let them be conquered by Jabin, a Canaanite king who ruled in the city of Hazor. The commander of his army was Sisera, who lived at Harosheth-of-the-Gentiles. 
The remaining families of the clan of Merari were assigned the following towns with the surrounding pasture lands: : In the territory of Zebulun: Rimmono and Tabor. 
she said to Jacob, “I have just heard your father say to Esau, 
If someone is going to speak in strange tongues, two or three at the most should speak, one after the other, and someone else must explain what is being said. 
Jerusalem is doomed, that corrupt, rebellious city that oppresses its own people. 
Write them on the doorposts of your houses and on your gates. 
I brought them into a fertile land, : to enjoy its harvests and its other good things. : But instead they ruined my land; : they defiled the country I had given them. 
It was then that they made an idol in the shape of a bull, offered sacrifice to it, and had a feast in honour of what they themselves had made. 
I own cattle, donkeys, sheep, goats, and slaves. I am sending you word, sir, in the hope of gaining your favour.” 
But now I tell you: whoever is angry  with his brother will be brought to trial, whoever calls his brother ‘You good-for-nothing!’ will be brought before the Council, and whoever calls his brother a worthless fool will be in danger of going to the fire of hell.  
It starts at one end of the sky : and goes across to the other. : Nothing can hide from its heat. 
He moved away from there and dug another well. There was no dispute about this one, so he named it “Freedom”. He said, “Now the LORD has given us freedom to live in the land, and we will be prosperous here.” 
“But before the great and terrible day of the LORD comes, I will send you the prophet Elijah. 
He told me to give you the following instructions: ‘You are about to go through the hill country of Edom, the territory of your distant relatives, the descendants of Esau. They will be afraid of you, 
Jesus answered, “Go back and tell John what you are hearing and seeing
He told Haggai to speak to Zerubbabel, the governor of Judah, to Joshua, the High Priest, and to the people, and to say to them, 
“But the rest of you in Thyatira have not followed this evil teaching; you have not learnt what the others call ‘the deep secrets of Satan’. I say to you that I will not put any other burden on you.  
God says, : “For a long time I kept silent; : I did not answer my people. : But now the time to act has come; : I cry out like a woman in labour. 
After Terah was seventy years old, he became the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran. 
So Hiram supplied Solomon with all the cedar and pine logs that he wanted, 
When the LORD led his people through a hot, dry desert, : they did not suffer from thirst. : He made water come from a rock for them; : he split the rock open, and water flowed out. 
and recovered the loot that had been taken. He also brought back his nephew Lot and his possessions, together with the women and the other prisoners. 
Early the next morning he went back to the Temple. All the people gathered round him, and he sat down and began to teach them. 
“There is also Shimei son of Gera, from the town of Bahurim in Benjamin. He cursed me bitterly the day I went to Mahanaim, but when he met me at the River Jordan, I gave him my solemn promise in the name of the LORD that I would not have him killed. 
“All right,” Jonathan said. “We will go across and let the Philistines see us. 
LORD, I can see their children being hunted down and killed. 
Jeroboam son of Nebat rebelled against Solomon, his king. 
He removed the foreign altars and the pagan places of worship, broke down the sacred stone columns, and cut down the symbols of the goddess Asherah. 
Abram stayed in the land of Canaan, and Lot settled among the cities in the valley and camped near Sodom, 
Do the same thing if you find a donkey, a piece of clothing, or anything else that your fellow-Israelite may have lost. 
It is true that I am a close relative and am responsible for you, but there is a man who is a closer relative than I am. 
Don't deny yourself a single day's happiness. If there is something you want to do and it is lawful, go ahead! 
Surely he is ready to save those who honour him, : and his saving presence will remain in our land. 
It is worth more than gold, : Than a gold vase or finest glass. 
Then all of Joshua's men came back safe to him at the camp at Makkedah. : No one in the land dared even to speak against the Israelites. 
God is not unfair. He will not forget the work you did or the love you showed for him in the help you gave and are still giving to your fellow-Christians. 
Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet. 
Then the king, the governor, Bernice, and all the others got up, 
Almighty God does not do evil; : he is never unjust to anyone. 
Then he said, “God bless you, my child. Your father is a good and noble man. What a terrible tragedy that such an honest and generous man should have lost his sight!” He threw his arms round Tobias' neck and wept on his shoulder. 
They no longer kept their lives or their marriages pure. A man might kill another by an act of treachery or cause him grief by committing adultery with his wife. 
There is hope for your future; : your children will come back home. : I, the LORD, have spoken. 
in the countryside the flowers are in bloom. : This is the time for singing; : the song of doves is heard in the fields. 
Remember, then, what you were taught and what you heard; obey it and turn from your sins. If you do not wake up, I will come upon you like a thief, and you will not even know the time when I will come.  
He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High God. The Lord God will make him a king, as his ancestor David was, 
Lot also had sheep, goats, and cattle, as well as his own family and servants. 
Why doesn't God set a time for judging, : a day of justice for those who serve him? 
He thinks of human life as just a game, a market where he can make a profit. He believes that he must make money however he can, even by evil ways. 
When Nahor was 29 years old, he had a son, Terah; 
If you try to make a profit dishonestly, you will get your family into trouble. Don't take bribes and you will live longer. 
But they quickly forgot what he had done : and acted without waiting for his advice. 
Then the disciples came to him and said, “Do you know that the Pharisees had their feelings hurt by what you said?” 
I persecuted to the death the people who followed this Way. I arrested men and women and threw them into prison. 
Now that you have searched through all my belongings, what household article have you found that belongs to you? Put it out here where your men and mine can see it, and let them decide which one of us is right. 
The place was named Massah and Meribah, because the Israelites complained and put the LORD to the test when they asked, “Is the LORD with us or not?” 
The Lord renewed that covenant with Isaac, and then again with Jacob, repeating the promise that Abraham's descendants would be a blessing to the whole human race. The Lord assured Jacob that he would bless him; he gave him the land that would be his, dividing it into twelve parts, one for each of the tribes.
Mordecai the Jew was second in rank only to King Xerxes himself. He was honoured and well liked by his fellow-Jews. He worked for the good of his people and for the security of all their descendants.
“When we went back to our father, we told him what you had said. 
The tassels will remind you to keep all my commands, and you will belong completely to me. 
So Jesus got up and followed him, and his disciples went along with him. 
and by paying attention to the words of my servants, the prophets, whom I have kept on sending to you. You have never obeyed what they said. 
From his sanctuary God has said, : “In triumph I will divide Shechem : and distribute the Valley of Sukkoth to my people. 
Zadok son of Immer built the next section, which was in front of his house. : Shemaiah son of Shecaniah, keeper of the East Gate, built the next section. 
Samuel said to the people of Israel, “If you are going to turn to the LORD with all your hearts, you must get rid of all the foreign gods and the images of the goddess Astarte. Dedicate yourselves completely to the LORD and worship only him, and he will rescue you from the power of the Philistines.” 
In the eighteenth year of the reign of King Jeroboam of Israel, Abijah became king of Judah, 
I will come to you and save you. : I will destroy all the nations : where I have scattered you, : but I will not destroy you. : I will not let you go unpunished; : but when I punish you, I will be fair. : I, the LORD, have spoken.”
Your oarsmen were from the cities of Sidon and Arvad. : Your own skilful men were the sailors. 
The fifty prophets from Jericho saw him and said, “The power of Elijah is on Elisha!” They went to meet him, bowed down before him, 
Eber had two sons: one was named Peleg, because during his time the people of the world were divided; and the other was named Joktan. 
About the tribe of Dan he said: : “Dan is a young lion; : He leaps out from Bashan.” 
Then they rose and stood in their places, and the following Levites explained the Law to them: Jeshua, Bani, Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai, Hodiah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan, and Pelaiah. 
Make certain, then, that the light in you is not darkness.  
It grew strong enough to attack the army of heaven, the stars themselves, and it threw some of them to the ground and trampled on them. 
When Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went out to meet him, but Mary stayed in the house. 
He motioned with his hand for them to be quiet, and he explained to them how the Lord had brought him out of prison. “Tell this to James and the rest of the believers,” he said; then he left and went somewhere else. 
Listen, my dear brothers and sisters! God chose the poor people of this world to be rich in faith and to possess the kingdom which he promised to those who love him. 
Eli, who was very anxious about the Covenant Box, was sitting on a seat beside the road, staring. The man spread the news throughout the town, and everyone cried out in fear. 
“Why are you doing this? We ourselves are only human beings like you! We are here to announce the Good News, to turn you away from these worthless things to the living God, who made heaven, earth, sea, and all that is in them. 
The LORD will let the people be governed by immature boys. 
That same day Gad went to David and said to him, “Go up to Araunah's threshing place and build an altar to the LORD.” 
For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. 
and bring them to me. The priests will sprinkle salt on them and burn them as an offering to me. 
Jesus then told his disciples to make all the people divide into groups and sit down on the green grass. 
That is how it will be on the day the Son of Man is revealed. 
Then the official stood up and shouted in Hebrew, “Listen to what the emperor of Assyria is telling you! 
and five metres wide, with walls 2.5 metres thick on either side. He measured the room itself: it was twenty metres long, and ten metres wide. 
May this water enter your stomach and cause it to swell up and your genital organs to shrink.” : The woman shall respond, “I agree; may the LORD do so.” 
Once again she became pregnant and gave birth to another son. She said, “Now my husband will be bound more tightly to me, because I have borne him three sons”; so she named him Levi.  
“Take the advice of sensible people, and never treat any useful advice lightly. 
While Apollos was in Corinth, Paul travelled through the interior of the province and arrived in Ephesus. There he found some disciples 
One of Nabal's servants said to Nabal's wife Abigail, “Have you heard? David sent some messengers from the wilderness with greetings for our master, but he insulted them. 
This is why the Israelites cannot stand against their enemies. They retreat from them because they themselves have now been condemned to destruction! I will not stay with you any longer unless you destroy the things you were ordered not to take! 
You are doomed! Heroes of the wine bottle! Brave and fearless when it comes to mixing drinks! 
I hate your New Moon Festivals and holy days; they are a burden that I am tired of bearing. 
And just as surely as I have done this, so I will maintain my covenant with Jacob's descendants and with my servant David. I will choose one of David's descendants to rule over the descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. I will be merciful to my people and make them prosperous again.”
Even the Egyptians will be shocked and dismayed when they learn that Tyre has been destroyed. 
so he went into the house of God and ate the bread offered to God. This happened when Abiathar was the High Priest. According to our Law only the priests may eat this bread — but David ate it and even gave it to his men.” 
The Red Sea looked and ran away; : the River Jordan stopped flowing. 
Even if you washed with the strongest soap, : I would still see the stain of your guilt. 
One out of every ten domestic animals belongs to the LORD. When the animals are counted, every tenth one belongs to the LORD. 
Before the roses wither, let's pick them and wear them in our hair! 
Without any reason they laid a trap for me : and dug a deep hole to catch me. 
All day long the people tried to get David to eat something, but he made a solemn promise, “May God strike me dead if I eat anything before the day is over!” 
They were pleased to hear what he had to say, and promised to give him money. So Judas started looking for a good chance to hand Jesus over to them. 
You are the one who will profit if you have wisdom, and if you reject it, you are the one who will suffer. 
But he did it in order to straighten out this whole matter. Your Majesty is as wise as the angel of God and knows everything that happens.” 
: Athaiah, the son of Uzziah and grandson of Zechariah. His other ancestors included Amariah, Shephatiah, and Mahalalel, descendants of Judah's son Perez. 
Prepare what you are going to say and people will listen to you. Use what you have learnt before you start talking. 
The people of Babylon made idols of the god Succoth Benoth; the people of Cuth, idols of Nergal; the people of Hamath, idols of Ashima; 
But we belong to God. Whoever knows God listens to us; whoever does not belong to God does not listen to us. This, then, is how we can tell the difference between the Spirit of truth and the spirit of error. 
These are the names of the famous, experienced soldiers from the tribe of Gad who joined David's troops when he was at the desert fort. They were experts with shields and spears, as fierce-looking as lions and as quick as mountain deer. 
and he placed 3,300 foremen in charge of them to supervise their work. 
The men went as far as the Jordan, and all along the road they saw the clothes and equipment that the Syrians had abandoned as they fled. Then they returned and reported to the king. 
Bebai — 623 
The most stupid fool is better off than someone who thinks he is wise when he is not. 
No indeed! People bring trouble on themselves, : as surely as sparks fly up from a fire. 
Gold and silver are tested by fire, and a person's heart is tested by the LORD. 
Look up at the hilltops. Is there any place where you have not acted like a prostitute? You waited for lovers along the roadside, as an Arab waits for victims in the desert. You have defiled the land with your prostitution. 
and from there to Hamath Pass. It will continue to Zedad 
Then he said to me, “On it is written the curse that is to go out over the whole land. On one side of the scroll it says that every thief will be removed from the land; and on the other side it says that everyone who tells lies under oath will also be taken away. 
They want to be teachers of God's law, but they do not understand their own words or the matters about which they speak with so much confidence. 
So I prophesied as I had been told. Breath entered the bodies, and they came to life and stood up. There were enough of them to form an army. 
Like a grapevine I put out lovely shoots; : my blossoms gave way to rich and glorious fruit. 
but God was merciful to me in order that Christ Jesus might show his full patience in dealing with me, the worst of sinners, as an example for all those who would later believe in him and receive eternal life. 
When this life became visible, we saw it; so we speak of it and tell you about the eternal life which was with the Father and was made known to us. 
With his tail he dragged a third of the stars out of the sky and threw them down to the earth. He stood in front of the woman, in order to eat her child as soon as it was born. 
But by the free gift of God's grace all are put right with him through Christ Jesus, who sets them free. 
John's clothes were made of camel's hair; he wore a leather belt round his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey. 
If a son is disciplined, he will be of some use, and his father can boast of him to his friends. 
The LORD, the God of Israel, said to me, “Here is a wine cup filled with my anger. Take it to all the nations to whom I send you, and make them drink from it. 
He made it according to the instructions that Moses, the LORD's servant, had given the Israelites, as it says in the Law of Moses: “an altar made of stones which have not been cut with iron tools.” On it they offered burnt sacrifices to the LORD, and they also presented their fellowship offerings. 
Rehoboam ruled in Jerusalem and increased his power as king. He was 41 years old when he became king, and he ruled for seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD had chosen from all the territory of Israel as the place where he was to be worshipped. Rehoboam's mother was Naamah, from the land of Ammon. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “tell your people what happens when I bring war to a land. The people of that country choose one of their number to be a watchman. 
It was cold, so the servants and guards had built a charcoal fire and were standing round it, warming themselves. So Peter went over and stood with them, warming himself. 
They have not prayed to me sincerely, but instead they throw themselves down and wail as the heathen do. When they pray for corn and wine, they gash themselves like pagans. What rebels they are! 
So they left, disagreeing among themselves, after Paul had said this one thing: “How well the Holy Spirit spoke through the prophet Isaiah to your ancestors! 
Israel's holy God and saviour says : to the one who is deeply despised, : who is hated by the nations : and is the servant of rulers: : “Kings will see you released : and will rise to show their respect; : princes also will see it, : and they will bow low to honour you.” : This will happen because the LORD has chosen his servant; : the holy God of Israel keeps his promises. 
This observance will be a reminder, like something tied on our hands or on our foreheads; it will remind us that the LORD brought us out of Egypt by his great power.’ ” 
Take the LORD's Covenant Box, put it on the wagon, and place in a box beside it the gold models that you are sending to him as a gift to pay for your sins. Start the wagon on its way and let it go by itself. 
But some seeds fell in good soil, and the plants produced corn; some produced 100 grains, others sixty, and others thirty.” 
Even though your prejudice is hidden, : he will reprimand you, 
“The LORD created me first of all, : the first of his works, long ago. 
So then, my brothers and sisters, because of God's great mercy to us I appeal to you: offer yourselves as a living sacrifice to God, dedicated to his service and pleasing to him. This is the true worship that you should offer. 
Suddenly he was going with her like an ox on the way to be slaughtered, like a deer prancing into a trap  
Every human being was made from the earth, just as Adam was. 
the altar for burning offerings, together with all its equipment, and the washbasin with its base. 
But Jabez prayed to the God of Israel, “Bless me, God, and give me much land. Be with me and keep me from anything evil that might cause me pain.” And God gave him what he prayed for. 
He has his home in Jerusalem; : he lives on Mount Zion. 
Righteousness rescues those who are honest, but those who can't be trusted are trapped by their own greed. 
Honour your father with all your heart, and never forget how your mother suffered when you were born. 
Give me again the joy that comes from your salvation, : and make me willing to obey you. 
So Raphael and the four servants went to Rages in Media, where they stayed at Gabael's house. Raphael gave him the signed document and told him that Tobit's son Tobias had recently married, and that Gabael was invited to the wedding feast. At once Gabael counted out the bags of money, which were still sealed, and they loaded them on the camels.  
‘It was some enemy who did this,’ he answered. ‘Do you want us to go and pull up the weeds?’ they asked him.  
The rivers of Edom will turn into tar, and the soil will turn into sulphur. The whole country will burn like tar. 
All the animals, birds, and fish will live in fear of you. They are all placed under your power. 
Those who obey God's commands live in union with God and God lives in union with them. And because of the Spirit that God has given us we know that God lives in union with us.
Geber son of Uri: the region of Gilead, which had been ruled by King Sihon of the Amorites and King Og of Bashan : Besides these twelve, there was one governor over the whole land. 
The LORD spoke to me again. 
Look at those ungodly people: they refused to recognize you as God, so you punished them with your great power. They were overtaken by terrible storms of rain and hail and were completely destroyed by fire. 
This is the explanation I was given: “The fourth beast is a fourth empire that will be on the earth and will be different from all other empires. It will crush the whole earth and trample it down. 
So Jesus took him off alone, away from the crowd, put his fingers in the man's ears, spat, and touched the man's tongue. 
“Slaughter the Passover animals at the one place of worship and nowhere else in the land that the LORD your God will give you. 
“Lord, these are your servants, your own people. You rescued them by your great power and strength. 
So it is with the tongue: small as it is, it can boast about great things. : Just think how large a forest can be set on fire by a tiny flame! 
The people of Israel called the food manna. It was like a small white seed, and tasted like biscuits made with honey. 
So then — as surely as I, the Sovereign LORD, am the living God — death is your fate, and you cannot escape it. You are guilty of murder, and murder will follow you. 
Jesus answered them, “People who are well do not need a doctor, but only those who are sick.  
I have killed lions and bears, and I will do the same to this heathen Philistine, who has defied the army of the living God. 
at the age of 25, and he ruled in Jerusalem for sixteen years. His mother was Jerusha, the daughter of Zadok. 
So Uzziah dismissed the people. All the men returned to their guard posts on the walls and towers, while the women and children went back to their homes. The morale of the entire town was very low.
Then Levi had a big feast in his house for Jesus, and among the guests was a large number of tax collectors and other people. 
And so there was not enough pasture land for the two of them to stay together, because they had too many animals. 
With these stones he rebuilt the altar for the worship of the LORD. He dug a trench round it, large enough to hold almost fourteen litres of water. 
You will look at the land from a distance, but you will not enter the land that I am giving the people of Israel.”
Lizards: you can hold one in your hand, but you can find them in palaces. 
He began to speak boldly in the synagogue. When Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him home with them and explained to him more correctly the Way of God. 
Like wheat that ripens till harvest time, : you will live to a ripe old age. 
His disciples answered, “You see how the people are crowding you; why do you ask who touched you?” 
My enemies come back in the evening, : snarling like dogs as they go about the city, 
Saul said to Ahimelech, “Listen, Ahimelech!” : “At your service, sir,” he answered. 
“Make a lid of pure gold, 110 centimetres long and 66 centimetres wide. 
Take to the one place of worship your offerings and the gifts that you have promised the LORD. 
And so, according to the Good News I preach, this is how it will be on that Day when God through Jesus Christ will judge the secret thoughts of all. 
The LORD Almighty has sworn an oath: “What I have planned will happen. What I have determined to do will be done. 
All my life I have been honest and have tried to do what was right. I have often given money to help needy relatives and fellow-Jews who were deported with me to Nineveh, the capital of Assyria. 
Jerusalem, look! Your enemies are coming down from the north! Where are the people entrusted to your care, your people you were so proud of? 
Kill all the males, and also every woman who is not a virgin.” 
“Obey faithfully all the laws that I have given you today, so that you may live, increase in number, and occupy the land which the LORD promised to your ancestors. 
There is only one who is wise, : and we must stand in awe before his throne. 
I could ask the darkness to hide me : or the light round me to turn into night, 
At the LORD's command a large fish swallowed Jonah, and he was inside the fish for three days and nights.
and disobeyed the LORD's command not to worship idols. 
then you will know that there was good reason for everything I did.” The Sovereign LORD has spoken.
He was trying to see who Jesus was, but he was a little man and could not see Jesus because of the crowd. 
Those who bring trouble on their families will have nothing at the end. : Foolish people will always be servants to the wise. 
Even before I speak, : you already know what I will say. 
people die, never to rise. : They will never wake up while the sky endures; : they will never stir from their sleep. 
Dimnah, and Nahalal, with their pasture lands. 
in order that at the present time, by means of the church, the angelic rulers and powers in the heavenly world might learn of his wisdom in all its different forms. 
May God give you everlasting honour for what you have done. May he reward you with blessings, because you remained faithful to him and did not hesitate to risk your own life to relieve the oppression of your people.” : All the people replied, “Amen, amen!”
They were too ashamed to return home. When David heard what had happened, he sent word for them to stay in Jericho and not return until their beards had grown again. 
But the LORD said to me, ‘Don't be afraid of him. I am going to give him, his men, and all his territory to you. Do the same to him as you did to Sihon the Amorite king who ruled in Heshbon.’ 
Do you suppose that I came to bring peace to the world? No, not peace, but division.  
“Do not marry or have children in a place like this. 
day after day they urged him to give in, but he would not listen to them. “I am a Jew,” he explained, “and I cannot bow to Haman.” So they told Haman about this, wondering if he would tolerate Mordecai's conduct. 
His eldest son was Abdon, and his other sons were Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab, 
A wise, mature person is known for his understanding. The more pleasant his words, the more persuasive he is. 
Then the earth trembled and shook; : the foundations of the mountains rocked and quivered, : because God was angry. 
The LORD spoke to me again. 
The stones with which the Temple was built had been prepared at the quarry, so that there was no noise made by hammers, axes, or any other iron tools as the Temple was being built. 
Being lazy will make you poor, but hard work will make you rich. 
If any Israelite or any foreigner living in the community eats meat with blood still in it, the LORD will turn against him and no longer consider him one of his people. 
I command that throughout my empire everyone should fear and respect Daniel's God. : “He is a living God, : and he will rule for ever. : His kingdom will never be destroyed, : and his power will never come to an end. 
Whoever opposes the existing authority opposes what God has ordered; and anyone who does so will bring judgement on himself. 
But there is no point in offering food to an idol; it can't eat it or smell it. It is just the same with someone whom the Lord has afflicted. 
Joshua was now very old. The LORD said to him, “You are very old, but there is still much land to be taken
The crowd answered back, “We have a law that says he ought to die, because he claimed to be the Son of God.” 
But the LORD's love for your ancestors was so strong that he chose you instead of any other people, and you are still his chosen people. 
Zimri entered the house, assassinated Elah, and succeeded him as king. This happened in the 27th year of the reign of King Asa of Judah. 
passing north of the ridge of Beth Hoglah, and ended at the northern inlet on the Dead Sea, where the River Jordan empties into it. This was the southern border. 
On the seventeenth day of the seventh month the boat came to rest on a mountain in the Ararat range. 
I looked at the mountains — they were shaking, : and the hills were rocking to and fro. 
Five days later the High Priest Ananias went to Caesarea with some elders and a lawyer named Tertullus. They appeared before Felix and made their charges against Paul. 
Moses and Aaron went and stood in front of the Tent, 
However that may be, let us go forward according to the same rules we have followed until now. 
He must become more important while I become less important.” 
listen to their prayers. Hear them in heaven and give them victory. 
I will bring you to the land that I solemnly promised to give to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; and I will give it to you as your own possession. I am the LORD.’ ” 
you built a reservoir inside the city to hold the water flowing down from the old pool. But you paid no attention to God, who planned all this long ago and who caused it to happen. 
But Sanballat, from the town of Beth Horon, and Tobiah, an official in the province of Ammon, heard that someone had come to work for the good of the people of Israel, and they were highly indignant. 
“You yourselves give them something to eat,” Jesus answered. : They asked, “Do you want us to go and spend 200 silver coins on bread in order to feed them?” 
You asked for a king and for leaders, but how can they save the nation?  
“You saw what I, the LORD, did to the Egyptians and how I carried you as an eagle carries her young on her wings, and brought you here to me. 
At the Fountain Gate they went up the steps that led to David's City, past David's palace, and back to the wall at the Water Gate, on the east side of the city. 
When he left the crowd and went into the house, his disciples asked him to explain this saying. 
Then the LORD said to Moses, “How much longer will you people refuse to obey my commands? 
The next day Jesus and the three disciples went down from the hill, and a large crowd met Jesus. 
No speech or words are used, : no sound is heard; 
For we are like a sweet-smelling incense offered by Christ to God, which spreads among those who are being saved and those who are being lost. 
If some of the meat or some of the bread is not eaten by morning, it is to be burnt; it is not to be eaten, for it is sacred. 
My heart is grieved when I see what has happened to the women of the city. 
At every place of worship people sleep on clothing that they have taken from the poor as security for debts. In the temple of their God they drink wine which they have taken from those who owe them money. 
Any bed on which she lies and anything on which she sits during this time is unclean. 
They are the men who have kept themselves pure by not having sexual relations with women; they are virgins. They follow the Lamb wherever he goes. They have been redeemed from the rest of the human race and are the first ones to be offered to God and to the Lamb. 
So there is no difference between Jews and Gentiles, between slaves and free people, between men and women; you are all one in union with Christ Jesus. 
They pulled the boats up on the beach, left everything, and followed Jesus. 
Finally, our brothers and sisters, pray for us, that the Lord's message may continue to spread rapidly and be received with honour, just as it was among you. 
I will destroy their kings and leaders, and set up my throne there. 
To this one he said, ‘You will be in charge of five cities.’ 
But let the wise ancestors teach you; : listen to what they had to say
and as soon as he lifted his hand, the men who had been hiding got up quickly, ran into the city and captured it. They immediately set the city on fire. 
Baana son of Hushai: the region of Asher and the town of Bealoth 
Pahath Moab (descendants of Jeshua and Joab) — 2,812 
“Some say that you are John the Baptist,” they answered. “Others say that you are Elijah, while others say that one of the prophets of long ago has come back to life.” 
and said to the people, “When you see the priests carrying the Covenant Box of the LORD your God, break camp and follow them. 
Salma, the founder of Bethlehem, was the ancestor of the people of Netophath, of Atroth Beth Joab, and of the Zorites, who were one of the two clans in Manahath. 
Follow Wisdom, and keep to her ways with all your heart. 
So Moses cried out to the LORD, “O God, heal her!” 
Behind him came Simon Peter, and he went straight into the tomb. He saw the linen wrappings lying there 
and with all living beings — all birds and all animals — everything that came out of the boat with you. 
Beat part of it into a fine powder, take it into the Tent of my presence, and sprinkle it in front of the Covenant Box. Treat this incense as completely holy. 
He made rich soil become a salty wilderness : because of the wickedness of those who lived there. 
Then the angel took the incense burner, filled it with fire from the altar, and threw it on the earth. There were rumblings and peals of thunder, flashes of lightning, and an earthquake. 
So the men of Beth Shemesh said, “Who can stand before the LORD, this holy God? Where can we send him to get him away from us?” 
Jesus said to them, “I am telling you the truth: everyone who sins is a slave of sin.  
I ask you to bless my descendants so that they will continue to enjoy your favour. You, LORD, have blessed them, and your blessing will rest on them for ever.”
Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard when one of the High Priest's servant women came to him and said, “You, too, were with Jesus of Galilee.” 
When I heard their complaints, I was angry 
They mounted four rows of precious stones on it: in the first row they mounted a ruby, a topaz, and a garnet; 
Only do not eat meat with blood still in it, for the life is in the blood, and you must not eat the life with the meat. 
You, O LORD our God, were prepared to punish us, and you did, because you always do what is right, and we did not listen to you. 
The splendour of Jerusalem is a thing of the past. : Her leaders are like deer that are weak from hunger, : Whose strength is almost gone as they flee from the hunters. 
Joab was told that King David was weeping and mourning for Absalom. 
“Weave Aaron's shirt of fine linen and make a turban of fine linen and also a sash decorated with embroidery. 
Human anger only results in more praise for you; : those who survive the wars will keep your festivals. 
You have kept me from being captured, : and I have never fallen. 
But if I had disobeyed the king and killed Absalom, the king would have heard about it — he hears about everything — and you would not have defended me.” 
Cain and his wife had a son and named him Enoch. Then Cain built a city and named it after his son. 
May those who accuse others falsely not succeed; : may evil overtake violent people and destroy them. 
He ordered them to occupy the mountain passes which led into the land of Judah, where it would be easy to withstand an attack, since the approach was only wide enough for two people at a time to pass. 
This is the daily offering that is completely burnt, which was first offered at Mount Sinai as a food offering, a smell pleasing to the LORD. 
and owned 7,000 sheep, 3,000 camels, 1,000 head of cattle, and 500 donkeys. He also had a large number of servants and was the richest man in the East. 
Because they reject the Good News, the Jews are God's enemies for the sake of you Gentiles. But because of God's choice, they are his friends because of their ancestors. 
That day many sacrifices were offered, and the people were full of joy because God had made them very happy. The women and the children joined in the celebration, and the noise they all made could be heard far and wide. 
Then my anger will be over, and I will be calm. I will not be angry or jealous any more. 
The storm makes my heart beat wildly. 
Job answered, “You are talking nonsense! When God sends us something good, we welcome it. How can we complain when he sends us trouble?” In spite of everything he suffered, Job said nothing against God. 
When God comes to reward the righteous, they will blaze out against the wicked like fire in dry straw. 
my relatives and friends are gone. 
I write this to you, not because I want to make you feel ashamed, but to instruct you as my own dear children. 
Joab ordered the trumpet to be blown to stop the fighting, and his troops came back from pursuing the Israelites. 
“If after all this punishment you still do not listen to me, but continue to defy me, 
You also must be patient. Keep your hopes high, for the day of the Lord's coming is near. 
So remember your Creator while you are still young, before those dismal days and years come when you will say, “I don't enjoy life.” 
Jesus answered them, “Because those Galileans were killed in that way, do you think it proves that they were worse sinners than all the other Galileans?  
and decorated with carved figures of winged creatures, palm trees, and flowers, which were evenly covered with gold. 
The fighting spread over the countryside, and more men died in the forest than were killed in battle. 
The Sovereign LORD, who has brought his people Israel home from exile, has promised that he will bring still other people to join them. 
and said to him, “Everyone else serves the best wine first, and after the guests have had plenty to drink, he serves the ordinary wine. But you have kept the best wine until now!” 
When someone is too lazy to repair his roof, it will leak, and the house will fall in. 
There, where God had spoken to him, Jacob set up a memorial stone and consecrated it by pouring wine and olive oil on it. 
“I am here on the king's business,” David answered. “He told me not to let anyone know what he sent me to do. As for my men, I have told them to meet me at a certain place. 
he called out his 900 iron chariots and all his men, and sent them from Harosheth-of-the-Gentiles to the River Kishon. 
I was with you in the Temple every day, and you did not try to arrest me. But this is your hour to act, when the power of darkness rules.” 
Have you sinned, my child? Don't do it again, and pray for forgiveness for what you have already done. 
Phinehas the priest and the ten leading men of the community who were with him, the heads of families of the western tribes, heard what the people of the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh had to say, and they were satisfied. 
Because he knows what they do : he overthrows them and crushes them by night. 
Such a person must understand that there is no difference between what we write in our letters when we are away and what we will do when we are there with you. 
I beg you, then, eat some food; you need it in order to survive. Not even a hair of your heads will be lost.” 
Uzziel also had three sons: Mishael, Elzaphan, and Sithri. 
But still, these people really have no excuse. 
The voice said to the sixth angel, “Release the four angels who are bound at the great river Euphrates!” 
What evil people swallow is like poison; : it kills them like the bite of a deadly snake. 
Then from Mishma the line descended through Hammuel, Zaccur, and Shimei. 
it is a chronic skin disease. The priest shall pronounce him unclean; there is no need to isolate him, because he is obviously unclean. 
No one in heaven is like you, LORD; : none of the heavenly beings is your equal. 
the son of Enosh, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God.
The cities in the foothills were Eshtaol, Zorah, Ashnah, 
This was to teach us that we must get up before daybreak to give you thanks, and pray as the sun comes up. 
Jesus answered, “How unbelieving and wrong you people are! How long must I stay with you? How long do I have to put up with you?” Then he said to the man, “Bring your son here.” 
Moses, Aaron, Nadab, Abihu, and seventy of the leaders of Israel went up the mountain 
Jesus asked, “What is the Kingdom of God like? What shall I compare it with?  
Is it easier to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven you,’ or to say, ‘Get up and walk’?  
“Where are you going?” I asked. : “To measure Jerusalem,” he answered, “to see how long and how wide it is.” 
Make four carrying rings of gold for it and put them at the four corners, where the legs are. 
But it was in the city of Ecbatana in the province of Media that a scroll was found, containing the following record
The voice spoke again from heaven, ‘Do not consider anything unclean that God has declared clean.’  
He shall also bring two doves or two pigeons, one for the sin offering and one for the burnt offering. 
Now I have built a majestic temple for you, : a place for you to live in for ever.” 
Who, then, can separate us from the love of Christ? Can trouble do it, or hardship or persecution or hunger or poverty or danger or death? 
If we obey God's commands, then we are sure that we know him. 
Izhar, Kohath, Levi, Jacob. 
Your life will be brighter than sunshine at noon, : and life's darkest hours will shine like the dawn. 
He arranged for the people of Tyre and Sidon to bring him a large number of cedar logs. 
I will also let their enemies plunder all the wealth of this city and seize all its possessions and property, even the treasures of the kings of Judah, and carry everything off to Babylonia. 
Then, still weeping, he embraced each of his brothers and kissed them. After that, his brothers began to talk with him. 
Jesus answered, “I am telling you the truth: no one can see the Kingdom of God without being born again.” 
Do not cheat a fellow-Israelite, but obey the LORD your God. 
The people of Israel have made the LORD bitterly angry; they deserve death for their crimes. Their Lord will punish them for the disgrace they have brought on him.
Each nation worships and obeys its own god, but we will worship and obey the LORD our God for ever and ever. 
“Have courage! You are now hearing the same words the prophets spoke at the time the foundation was being laid for rebuilding my Temple. 
The others sitting at the table began to say to themselves, “Who is this, who even forgives sins?” 
son of Amariah, son of Azariah, son of Meraioth, 
In the 23rd year of the reign of Joash son of Ahaziah as king of Judah, Jehoahaz son of Jehu became king of Israel, and he ruled in Samaria for seventeen years. 
For I tell you, I will never eat it until it is given its full meaning in the Kingdom of God.” 
and the priests shall arrange firewood on the altar and light it. 
I am not trying to relieve others by putting a burden on you; 
Anyone who obtains Wisdom will be greatly honoured. Wherever he goes, the Lord will bless him. 
Take pity on Jerusalem, your holy city, where you chose to stay. 
Don't think that God Most High is going to take into account how very generous you are and so accept any offering you decide to make. 
“The foreigners living in Babylon will run away to their own countries, scattering like deer escaping from hunters, like sheep without a shepherd. 
“I called to my allies, but they refused to help me. : The priests and the leaders died in the city streets, : Looking for food to keep themselves alive. 
so he called him in and said, ‘What is this I hear about you? Hand in a complete account of your handling of my property, because you cannot be my manager any longer.’  
Listen to your father; without him you would not exist. When your mother is old, show her your appreciation. 
Moses said to Aaron and his sons, “Take the meat to the entrance of the Tent of the LORD's presence, boil it, and eat it there with the bread that is in the basket of ordination offerings, just as the LORD commanded. 
for God is near, : and he will prove me innocent. : Does anyone dare to bring charges against me? : Let us go to court together! : Let him bring his accusation! 
Then he shall take the bull outside the camp and burn it, just as he burns the bull offered for his own sin. This is an offering to take away the sin of the community. 
“Worship no god but me. 
Early the next morning the people went out to the wild country near Tekoa. As they were starting out, Jehoshaphat addressed them with these words: “People of Judah and Jerusalem! Put your trust in the LORD your God, and you will stand firm. Believe what his prophets tell you, and you will succeed.” 
But when a stronger man attacks him and defeats him, he carries away all the weapons the owner was depending on and divides up what he stole. 
figures of doves covered with silver, : whose wings glittered with fine gold. : (Why did some of you stay among the sheep pens on the day of battle?) 
May he accept all your offerings : and be pleased with all your sacrifices. 
At that time Jesus arrived from Galilee and came to John at the Jordan to be baptized by him. 
People of Jerusalem, go out of the city : And build a road for your returning people! : Prepare a highway; clear it of stones! : Put up a signal so that the nations can know 
He also talked and disputed with the Greek-speaking Jews, but they tried to kill him. 
So now, I, the LORD, warn them that I am going to bring destruction on them, and they will not escape. And when they cry out to me for help, I will not listen to them. 
I will take away from among you those who are rebellious and sinful. I will take them out of the lands where they are living now, but I will not let them return to the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the LORD.” 
God's Spirit lifted me up and took me to the east gate of the Temple. There near the gate I saw 25 men, including Jaazaniah son of Azzur and Pelatiah son of Benaiah, two leaders of the nation. 
They are more desirable than the finest gold; : they are sweeter than the purest honey. 
Aaron and his sons are to use the water to wash their hands and feet 
Someone may be alive in the morning, : but die unnoticed before evening comes. 
Even the powerful army of the king of Egypt will not be able to help him fight when the Babylonians build earthworks and dig trenches in order to kill many people. 
His glory will shade the city from the heat of the day and make it a place of safety, sheltered from the rain and storm.
Then Sanballat sent one of his servants to me with a fifth message, this one in the form of an unsealed letter.  
The LORD said to Moses, “I will come to you in a thick cloud, so that the people will hear me speaking with you and will believe you from now on.” : Moses told the LORD what the people had answered, 
“I am the bread of life,” Jesus told them. “Those who come to me will never be hungry; those who believe in me will never be thirsty.  
It cannot be bought with silver or gold. 
Instead of eating, I mourn, : and I can never stop groaning. 
The words that he spoke at the LORD's command against the altar in Bethel and against all the places of worship in the towns of Samaria will surely come true.” 
No! Love your enemies and do good to them; lend and expect nothing back. You will then have a great reward, and you will be children of the Most High God. For he is good to the ungrateful and the wicked.  
The LORD looks down from heaven at human beings : to see if there are any who are wise, : any who worship him. 
Manoah got up and followed his wife. He went to the man and asked, “Are you the man who was talking to my wife?” : “Yes,” he answered. 
Then you will call to me. You will come and pray to me, and I will answer you. 
he said to Moses, “Please, sir, do not make us suffer this punishment for our foolish sin. 
A thousand of you will run away when you see one enemy soldier, and five soldiers will be enough to make you all run away. Nothing will be left of your army except a lonely flagstaff on the top of a hill! 
Examine your conscience before the Lord judges you; then when that time comes, he will forgive you. 
You shall appoint Aaron and his sons to carry out the duties of the priesthood; anyone else who tries to do so shall be put to death.” 
I, Tertius, the writer of this letter, send you Christian greetings. 
I heard the noise their wings made in flight; it sounded like the roar of the sea, like the noise of a huge army, like the voice of Almighty God. When they stopped flying, they folded their wings, 
The LORD says, : “Come, everyone who is thirsty — : here is water! : Come, you that have no money — : buy corn and eat! : Come! Buy wine and milk — : it will cost you nothing! 
Moses said to Aaron and his two remaining sons, Eleazar and Ithamar, “Take the grain offering that is left over from the food offered to the LORD, make unleavened bread with it and eat it beside the altar, because this offering is very holy. 
He came closer to the city, and when he saw it, he wept over it, 
Don't let her show off her beauty in front of men, or spend her time talking with the women.  
Among them were the ten sons of Haman son of Hammedatha, the enemy of the Jews: Parshandatha, Dalphon, Aspatha, Poratha, Adalia, Aridatha, Parmashta, Arisai, Aridai, and Vaizatha. However, there was no looting. 
I may give away everything I have, and even give up my body to be burnt — but if I have no love, this does me no good. 
But they kept on shouting at the top of their voices that Jesus should be crucified, and finally their shouting succeeded. 
Then Jesus said to the disciples, “And so I tell you not to worry about the food you need to stay alive or about the clothes you need for your body.  
Then Joseph left suddenly, because his heart was full of tender feelings for his brother. He was about to break down, so he went to his room and cried. 
He built pagan altars in the Temple, the place that the LORD had said was where he should be worshipped. 
So then, those who suffer because it is God's will for them, should by their good actions trust themselves completely to their Creator, who always keeps his promise.
And so I am thankful and glad, : and I feel completely secure, 
‘I, the LORD, am not easily angered, and I show great love and faithfulness and forgive sin and rebellion. Yet I will not fail to punish children and grandchildren to the third and fourth generation for the sins of their parents.’ 
It was more than we could have hoped for! First they gave themselves to the Lord; and then, by God's will they gave themselves to us as well. 
be glad, fields, and everything in you! : The trees in the woods will shout for joy 
This is what you must do. When we invade your land, tie this red cord to the window you let us down from. Get your father and mother, your brothers, and all your father's family together in your house. 
and he said to them, “We will never find a better man than Joseph, a man who has God's Spirit in him.” 
For the Jews there was joy and relief, happiness and a sense of victory. 
And that is not all they did. They profaned my Temple and broke the Sabbath, which I had established. 
Jesus wept. 
Then the Lord formed human beings from the dust : and sent each of them back to it again. 
When David heard the news, he said, “The LORD knows that my subjects and I are completely innocent of the murder of Abner. 
Everything was a complete riot of bloody murder, robbery, deceit, corruption, faithlessness, disorder, falsehood, 
I sat there grieving until the time for the evening sacrifice to be offered, and people began to gather round me — all those who were frightened because of what the God of Israel had said about the sins of those who had returned from exile. 
A person's words can be a source of wisdom, deep as the ocean, fresh as a flowing stream. 
And may the LORD your God give you insight and wisdom so that you may govern Israel according to his Law. 
Then Abraham gave some sheep and cattle to Abimelech, and the two of them made an agreement. 
The right thing to do is to keep from eating meat, drinking wine, or doing anything else that will make your brother or sister fall. 
He will go back by the same road he came, without entering this city. I, the LORD, have spoken. 
In my many travels I have been in danger from floods and from robbers, in danger from fellow-Jews and from Gentiles; there have been dangers in the cities, dangers in the wilds, dangers on the high seas, and dangers from false friends. 
The people cried loudly as David's followers left. The king crossed the brook of Kidron, followed by his men, and together they went out towards the wilderness. 
After all, through the power of God you killed the two Midianite chiefs, Oreb and Zeeb. What have I done to compare with that?” When he said this, they were no longer so angry. 
If you are willing to listen, you will learn and become wise. 
“You also made the LORD your God angry when you were at Taberah, Massah, and Kibroth Hattaavah. 
Jesus answered, “Who is my mother? Who are my brothers?”  
Howl in pain! The day of the LORD is near, the day when the Almighty brings destruction. 
That is what will happen to the city that is so proud of its own power and thinks it is safe. Its people think that their city is the greatest in the world. What a desolate place it will become, a place where wild animals will rest! Everyone who passes by will shrink back in horror.
Anyone who does not obey that prophet shall be separated from God's people and destroyed.’ 
The Lord is always watching what people do; everything they do is as clear as day to him. 
I will not show mercy to her children; they are the children of a shameless prostitute. She herself said, “I will go to my lovers — they give me food and water, wool and linen, olive oil and wine.” 
“If you forgive others the wrongs they have done to you, your Father in heaven will also forgive you.  
Why do you make me see such trouble? How can you endure to look on such wrongdoing? Destruction and violence are all round me, and there is fighting and quarrelling everywhere. 
Dead bodies were already lying in piles, but he stepped in to hold your anger back and to keep it from harming those who were left alive. 
David saw the angel standing in mid air, holding his sword in his hand, ready to destroy Jerusalem. Then David and the leaders of the people — all of whom were wearing sackcloth — bowed low, with their faces touching the ground. 
but they store up their food during the summer, getting ready for winter. 
But they all began, one after another, to make excuses. The first one told the servant, ‘I have bought a field and must go and look at it; please accept my apologies.’  
Keep me safe, also, from wilful sins; : don't let them rule over me. : Then I shall be perfect : and free from the evil of sin. 
Some people are too stingy to put bread on their own table. 
I praise you because you are to be feared; : all you do is strange and wonderful. : I know it with all my heart. 
and all the cities and towns near Ashdod, from Ekron to the Mediterranean Sea. 
Joash became king of Judah at the age of seven, and he ruled in Jerusalem for forty years. His mother was Zibiah from the city of Beersheba. 
Influential people have lost their homes over it and have had to go wandering in foreign countries. 
“How terrible when all people speak well of you; their ancestors said the very same things about the false prophets. 
They still remembered what life had been like when they were slaves — how the earth bred gnats instead of cattle, how the river produced huge numbers of frogs instead of fish. 
“Please speak to the LORD for us, because King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia and his army are besieging the city. Maybe the LORD will perform one of his miracles for us and force Nebuchadnezzar to retreat.” 
Be careful not to be misled; you can be enjoying yourself and suddenly find yourself humiliated. 
The LORD Almighty gave this message to Zechariah
Close your heart to every love but mine; : hold no one in your arms but me. : Love is as powerful as death; : passion is as strong as death itself. : It bursts into flame : and burns like a raging fire. 
Many who heard Jesus say these things believed in him. 
These were the spirits of those who had not obeyed God when he waited patiently during the days that Noah was building his boat. The few people in the boat — eight in all — were saved by the water, 
The following musicians of the Levite clan of Asaph were in the places assigned to them by King David's instructions: Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun, the king's prophet. The guards at the temple gates did not need to leave their posts, because the other Levites prepared the Passover for them. 
People kept coming to Jesus from one town after another; and when a great crowd gathered, Jesus told this parable
sent messengers to summon Balaam son of Beor, who was at Pethor near the River Euphrates in the land of Amaw. They brought him this message from Balak: “I want you to know that a whole nation has come from Egypt; its people are spreading out everywhere and threatening to take over our land. 
When David heard that Saul was planning to attack him, he said to the priest Abiathar, “Bring the ephod here.” 
The following tribes were descended from Esau by his wife Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah: Jeush, Jalam, and Korah. 
where he was tempted by the Devil for forty days. In all that time he ate nothing, so that he was hungry when it was over. 
I may promise life to someone good, but if he starts thinking that his past goodness is enough and begins to sin, I will not remember any of the good he did. He will die because of his sins. 
and they cursed the God of heaven for their pains and sores. But they did not turn from their evil ways. 
You will be left like a dead tree without any leaves or fruit. 
Now go, lead the people to the place I told you about. Remember that my angel will guide you, but the time is coming when I will punish these people for their sin.” 
His brother was Jubal, the ancestor of all musicians who play the harp and the flute. 
“They answered, ‘We are servants of the God of heaven and earth, and we are rebuilding the Temple which was originally built and equipped many years ago by a powerful king of Israel. 
Go and look at the city of Calneh. Then go on to the great city of Hamath and on down to the Philistine city of Gath. Were they any better than the kingdoms of Judah and Israel? Was their territory larger than yours? 
Then Moses turned to the LORD again and said, “Lord, why do you ill-treat your people? Why did you send me here? 
“Come together and listen, sons of Jacob. : Listen to your father Israel. 
I was there when he set the sky in place, : when he stretched the horizon across the ocean, 
That day the Israelites defeated Moab, and there was peace in the land for eighty years. 
While Josiah was king, King Neco of Egypt led an army to the River Euphrates to help the emperor of Assyria. King Josiah tried to stop the Egyptian army at Megiddo and was killed in battle. 
A man was there who had been ill for 38 years. 
The extra fifty centimetres on each side of the length is to hang over the sides of the Tent to cover it. 
When the LORD brought us back to Jerusalem, : it was like a dream! 
“While Your Majesty was sleeping, you dreamt about the future; and God, who reveals mysteries, showed you what is going to happen. 
Who are you to judge someone else's servants? It is their own Master who will decide whether they succeed or fail. And they will succeed, because the Lord is able to make them succeed. 
and Darius the Mede, who was then 62 years old, seized the royal power.
Wisdom rescued a righteous man while ungodly people were dying. He escaped the flames that destroyed the Five Cities. 
Then he shall remove all its fat, just as the fat is removed from the animals killed for the fellowship offerings, and he shall burn it on the altar so that the smell pleases the LORD. In this way the priest shall offer the sacrifice for the man's sin, and he will be forgiven. 
Bring on that appointed time when everyone can talk about the great things you do. Pour out your furious, flaming anger, and let none of our enemies survive. Destroy those who have oppressed your people. 
“I am telling you the truth: those who hear my words and believe in him who sent me have eternal life. They will not be judged, but have already passed from death to life.  
They also bribed Persian government officials to work against them. They kept on doing this throughout the reign of Cyrus and into the reign of Darius. 
On the first day of the Festival of Unleavened Bread the disciples came to Jesus and asked him, “Where do you want us to get the Passover meal ready for you?” 
After they had killed the bull, they took the child to Eli. 
and he named the light “Day” and the darkness “Night”. Evening passed and morning came — that was the first day. 
Music at a banquet where wine is served is like a ruby set in gold. 
Jedaiah (descendants of Jeshua) — 973 
Then he got up and went to Geshur and brought Absalom back to Jerusalem. 
And Jesus concluded, “The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.” 
You drove out the LORD's priests, the descendants of Aaron, and you drove out the Levites. In their place you appointed priests in the same way that other nations do. Anybody who comes along with a bull or seven sheep can get himself consecrated as a priest of those so-called gods of yours. 
and said to him, “Look, you are getting old and your sons don't follow your example. So then, appoint a king to rule over us, so that we will have a king, as other countries have.” 
Then they called out to Jonathan and the young man, “Come on up here! We have something to tell you!” : Jonathan said to the young man, “Follow me. The LORD has given Israel victory over them.” 
So at the door of the house, they said to the servant in charge, 
The Lord heard their prayers and saw their distress. For many days the people of Judah and Jerusalem continued their fast in front of the Temple of the Lord Almighty. 
He was the most famous of “The Thirty” and became their leader, but he was not as famous as “The Three”. 
“Mortal man, the Israelites think that your visions and prophecies are about the distant future. 
But as for the Gentiles who have become believers, we have sent them a letter telling them we decided that they must not eat any food that has been offered to idols, or any blood, or any animal that has been strangled, and that they must keep themselves from sexual immorality.” 
They had no children because Elizabeth could not have any, and she and Zechariah were both very old. 
Those who become wise are happy; wisdom will give them life. 
This is the account of what Nehemiah son of Hacaliah accomplished. : In the month of Kislev in the twentieth year that Artaxerxes was emperor of Persia, I, Nehemiah, was in Susa, the capital city. 
No! What I am saying is that what is sacrificed on pagan altars is offered to demons, not to God. And I do not want you to be partners with demons. 
and it is for this reason that I suffer these things. But I am still full of confidence, because I know whom I have trusted, and I am sure that he is able to keep safe until that Day what he has entrusted to me.  
After his arrest Peter was put in jail, where he was handed over to be guarded by four groups of four soldiers each. Herod planned to put him on trial in public after Passover. 
The priest shall offer the sacrifice for the man's sin, and he will be forgiven. 
So then, the LORD left some nations in the land to test the Israelites who had not been through the wars in Canaan. 
“Mortal man, here is my throne. I will live here among the people of Israel and rule over them for ever. Neither the people of Israel nor their kings will ever again disgrace my holy name by worshipping other gods or by burying the corpses of their kings in this place. 
Jehoiakim had two sons: Jehoiachin and Zedekiah. 
I say to Cyrus, ‘You are the one who will rule for me; : you will do what I want you to do: : you will order Jerusalem to be rebuilt : and the Temple foundations to be laid.’ ”
“He saved others, but he cannot save himself! Isn't he the king of Israel? If he comes down off the cross now, we will believe in him! 
But God was watching over the Jewish leaders, and the Persian officials decided to take no action until they could write to Darius and receive a reply. 
But when the man heard this, he became very sad, because he was very rich. 
Your teeth are as white as a flock of sheep : that have just been washed. : Not one of them is missing; : they are all perfectly matched. 
When you come, bring my coat that I left in Troas with Carpus; bring the books too, and especially the ones made of parchment. 
“There will be strange things happening to the sun, the moon, and the stars. On earth whole countries will be in despair, afraid of the roar of the sea and the raging tides.  
The natives saw the snake hanging on Paul's hand and said to one another, “This man must be a murderer, but Fate will not let him live, even though he escaped from the sea.” 
The LORD said to Moses, 
Unreliable messengers cause trouble, but those who can be trusted bring peace. 
I will make an eternal covenant with them. I will never stop doing good things for them, and I will make them fear me with all their heart, so that they will never turn away from me. 
So we fasted and prayed for God to protect us, and he answered our prayers. 
burning coals flamed up from the lightning before him. 
You boasted that you dug wells and drank water in foreign lands and that the feet of your soldiers tramped the River Nile dry. 
No lions will be there; : no fierce animals will pass that way. : Those whom the LORD has rescued : will travel home by that road. 
Amariah, Ahitub, 
Those who obey their human nature cannot please God. 
Then the LORD said to Gad, David's prophet, 
Jesus said this and then added, “Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I will go and wake him up.” 
The LORD told Moses 
Never say, “I will hide from the Lord. Nobody up there is going to give me a thought. How can I be noticed among so many people? The creation is so enormous, what am I worth? 
A man named Goliath, from the city of Gath, came out from the Philistine camp to challenge the Israelites. He was nearly three metres tall 
He told them, “When I get to the edge of the camp, watch me, and do what I do. 
May your constant love be with us, LORD, : as we put our hope in you.
Then they sent messengers to the king of Edom to ask permission to go through his land. But the king of Edom would not let them. They also asked the king of Moab, but neither would he let them go through his land. So the Israelites stayed at Kadesh. 
I do not reprimand you because of your sacrifices : and the burnt offerings you always bring me. 
Examine me and test me, LORD; : judge my desires and thoughts. 
The first chariot was pulled by red horses, the second by black horses, 
An argument that blazes out suddenly can lead to violence. 
You are my refuge and defence; : guide me and lead me as you have promised. 
Without warning he moves mountains : and in anger he destroys them. 
The Philistine commanders saw them and asked, “What are these Hebrews doing here?” : Achish answered, “This is David, an official of King Saul of Israel. He has been with me for quite a long time now. He has done nothing I can find fault with since the day he came over to me.” 
When Tobias and the angel Raphael had entered the city of Ecbatana, Tobias said, “Azarias, my friend, take me to see Raguel as quickly as you can.” The angel brought him to Raguel's house, where they found him sitting at the entrance to his courtyard. Raphael and Tobias greeted him first; then he replied, “Come in, my friends. You are welcome in my home.” : Raguel brought them into his house 
as the scripture says, “I have made you father of many nations.” So the promise is good in the sight of God, in whom Abraham believed — the God who brings the dead to life and whose command brings into being what did not exist. 
Word reached the Assyrians that the Egyptian army, led by King Tirhakah of Ethiopia, was coming to attack them. When the emperor heard this, he sent a letter to King Hezekiah of Judah 
If you do, the LORD will become angry with you. He will hold back the rain, and your ground will become too dry for crops to grow. Then you will soon die there, even though it is a good land that he is giving you. 
LORD, I know that you defend the cause of the poor : and the rights of the needy. 
Tell them to listen to what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying: you were delighted to see my Temple profaned, to see the land of Israel devastated, to see the people of Judah go into exile. 
But John tried to make him change his mind. “I ought to be baptized by you,” John said, “and yet you have come to me!” 
And so you Jews will be condemned by the Gentiles because you break the Law, even though you have it written down and are circumcised; but they obey the Law, even though they are not physically circumcised. 
But when Rebecca heard about Esau's plan, she sent for Jacob and said, “Listen, your brother Esau is planning to get even with you and kill you. 
Don't let yourself go to sleep or even stop to rest. 
“Listen, sir; I will give you the whole field and the cave that is in it. Here in the presence of my own people, I will give it to you, so that you can bury your wife.” 
Bring us back, Almighty God! : Show us your mercy, and we will be saved! 
Because Job was convinced of his own innocence, the three men gave up trying to answer him. 
The Levites obeyed, and killed about 3,000 men that day. 
I will bless those who bless you, : But I will curse those who curse you. : And through you I will bless all the nations.” 
Then they crucified him and divided his clothes among themselves, throwing dice to see who would get which piece of clothing. 
Next morning Balak took Balaam up to Bamoth Baal, from where Balaam could see a part of the people of Israel.
Then they went to the camp at Gilgal and said to Joshua and the Israelites, “We have come from a distant land. We want you to make a treaty with us.” 
I will give him complete authority under the king, the descendant of David. He will have the keys of office; what he opens, no one will shut, and what he shuts, no one will open. 
and you will be glad if you remember them and can quote them. 
The LORD's voice shakes the oaks : and strips the leaves from the trees : while everyone in his Temple shouts, “Glory to God!” 
David answered, “You are coming against me with sword, spear, and javelin, but I come against you in the name of the LORD Almighty, the God of the Israelite armies, which you have defied. 
Your love delights me, : my sweetheart and bride. : Your love is better than wine; : your perfume more fragrant than any spice. 
“Then the officers will address the men and say, ‘Is there any man here who has just built a house, but has not yet dedicated it? If so, he is to go home. Otherwise, if he is killed in battle, someone else will dedicate his house. 
I will send them a prophet like you from among their own people; I will tell him what to say, and he will tell the people everything I command. 
He answered, “LORD God Almighty, I have always served you — you alone. But the people of Israel have broken their covenant with you, torn down your altars, and killed all your prophets. I am the only one left — and they are trying to kill me.” 
The woman went to the king, bowed down to the ground in respect, and said, “Help me, Your Majesty!” 
Joab saw that the enemy troops would attack him in front and from the rear, so he chose the best of Israel's soldiers and put them in position facing the Syrians. 
I will make Judah and Israel prosperous, and I will rebuild them as they were before. 
The waves of death were all round me; : the waves of destruction rolled over me. 
It was like that for the whole twenty years I was with you. For fourteen years I worked to win your two daughters — and six years for your flocks. And even then, you changed my wages ten times. 
And don't think you can escape punishment by saying that Abraham is your ancestor. I tell you that God can take these stones and make descendants for Abraham! 
the time for making love and the time for not making love, : the time for kissing and the time for not kissing. 
Their family line will go on for ever, : and their fame will never fade. 
“I will give water to the thirsty land : and make streams flow on the dry ground. : I will pour out my spirit on your children : and my blessing on your descendants. 
The Moabites and 5,000 Assyrians moved their camp into the valley to control the source of the town's water. 
He will always make you rich enough to be generous at all times, so that many will thank God for your gifts which they receive from us. 
LORD, don't be angry and rebuke me! : Don't punish me in your anger! 
You overpower someone and send him away for ever; : his face is twisted in death. 
They and their descendants continued to guard the gates to the Temple. 
As soon as Jesus was baptized, he came up out of the water. Then heaven was opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God coming down like a dove and alighting on him. 
giving us all the punishment described in the Law of Moses. But even now, O LORD our God, we have not tried to please you by turning from our sins or by following your truth. 
But if I were to do so, my judgement would be true, because I am not alone in this; the Father who sent me is with me.  
Better to correct someone openly than to let him think you don't care for him at all. 
David stayed in hiding in the hill country, in the wilderness near Ziph. Saul was always trying to find him, but God did not hand David over to him. 
In the seventeenth year of his reign King Nebuchadnezzar led his army into battle against King Arphaxad. He defeated all Arphaxad's forces, including his entire cavalry, and all his charioteers. 
I don't know how to flatter, : and God would quickly punish me if I did.
Those in Judah who survive will flourish like plants that send roots deep into the ground and produce fruit. 
You saw the terrible plagues, the miracles, and the great wonders that the LORD performed. 
But if he does not pay attention to this, pay no attention to him. 
Why do you make me angry by worshipping idols and by sacrificing to other gods here in Egypt, where you have come to live? Are you doing this just to destroy yourselves, so that every nation on earth will treat you with scorn and use your name as a curse? 
So on the thirteenth day of the first month Haman called the king's secretaries and dictated a proclamation to be translated into every language and system of writing used in the empire and to be sent to all the rulers, governors, and officials. It was issued in the name of King Xerxes and stamped with his ring. 
All you that are righteous be glad : because of what the LORD has done! : Remember what the holy God has done, : and give thanks to him.
Naphtali and his sons: Jahzeel, Guni, Jezer, and Shillem. 
You should realize then, that the real descendants of Abraham are the people who have faith. 
When the chief priests and the temple guards saw him, they shouted, “Crucify him! Crucify him!” : Pilate said to them, “You take him, then, and crucify him. I find no reason to condemn him.” 
So he sent off a guard at once with orders to bring John's head. The guard left, went to the prison, and cut John's head off; 
People who listen when they are corrected will live, but those who will not admit that they are wrong are in danger. 
Live here, and I will be with you and bless you. I am going to give all this territory to you and to your descendants. I will keep the promise I made to your father Abraham. 
May red-hot coals fall on them; : may they be thrown into a pit and never get out. 
The Levites made the following report to King Hezekiah: “We have completed the ritual purification of the whole Temple, including the altar for burnt offerings, the table for the sacred bread, and all their equipment. 
Joab threw himself to the ground in front of David in respect, and said, “God bless you, Your Majesty! Now I know that you are pleased with me, because you have granted my request.” 
He will give each of us what our thoughts and actions deserve. Because of the Lord's mercy, his people will be happy when he has judged their case. 
except the king of Ai. He was captured and taken to Joshua. 
May they cover him like clothes : and always be round him like a belt! 
After she had left to go on picking up corn, Boaz ordered the workers, “Let her pick it up even where the bundles are lying, and don't say anything to stop her. Besides that, pull out some corn from the bundles and leave it for her to pick up.” 
They had large herds in the land of Gilead, and so they occupied the land as far east as the desert that stretches all the way to the River Euphrates. 
but these people, who had earlier welcomed the foreigners with happy celebrations and treated them as equals, later made them suffer cruelly. 
He removed his grandmother Maacah from her position as queen mother, because she had made an obscene idol of the fertility goddess Asherah. Asa cut down the idol and burnt it in the valley of the Kidron. 
Then for the third successive day they marched against the army of Benjamin and placed their soldiers in battle position facing Gibeah, as they had done before. 
In a single day the LORD will punish Israel's leaders and its people; he will cut them off, head and tail. 
Always be ready to help me, : because I follow your commands. 
On the west side there are to be curtains 22 metres long, with ten posts and ten bases. 
He sinned against the LORD, for until the day of his death he followed the wicked example of King Jeroboam son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin till the day of his death. 
In majestic triumph you overthrow your foes; : your anger blazes out and burns them up like straw. 
Mordecai had the letters written in the name of King Xerxes, and he stamped them with the royal seal. They were delivered by riders mounted on fast horses from the royal stables. 
Then because he was afraid of his brother Abimelech, Jotham ran away and went to live at Beer. 
He provides help and protection for those who are righteous and honest. 
Joab saw that the enemy troops would attack him in front and from the rear, so he chose the best of Israel's soldiers and put them in position facing the Syrians. 
You know what to do; you must not let him die a natural death. 
and put them in prison in the house of the captain of the guard, in the same place where Joseph was being kept. 
When David and his men arrived, they found that the town had been burnt down and that their wives, sons, and daughters had been carried away. 
But Jesus did not say a word to her. His disciples came to him and begged him, “Send her away! She is following us and making all this noise!” 
and many Judeans had come to see Martha and Mary to comfort them over their brother's death. 
Not even fast runners will escape; strong men will lose their strength, and soldiers will not be able to save their own lives. 
Jesus left the synagogue and went to Simon's house. Simon's mother-in-law was sick with a high fever, and they spoke to Jesus about her. 
Then there was another battle at Gath, where there was a giant who loved to fight. He had six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot. 
You then, who eat only vegetables — why do you pass judgement on others? And you who eat anything — why do you despise other believers? All of us will stand before God to be judged by him. 
Yes, after those forty days and nights the LORD gave me the two stone tablets on which he had written the covenant. 
The greatest love a person can have for his friends is to give his life for them.  
Your breasts are like gazelles, : twin deer feeding among lilies. 
“I, Sennacherib, Emperor of Assyria, ask what gives you people the confidence to remain in Jerusalem under siege. 
From John to the seven churches in the province of Asia: : Grace and peace be yours from God, who is, who was, and who is to come, and from the seven spirits in front of his throne, 
Adoniram was in charge of the forced labour; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was in charge of the records; 
These are the qualities you need, and if you have them in abundance, they will make you active and effective in your knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
The LORD has chosen Zion; : he wants to make it his home
Then we shall no longer be children, carried by the waves and blown about by every shifting wind of the teaching of deceitful people, who lead others into error by the tricks they invent. 
Then I called to the LORD, : “I beg you, LORD, save me!” 
“But when you capture cities in the land that the LORD your God is giving you, kill everyone. 
Even though Wisdom acts alone, she can do anything. She makes everything new, although she herself never changes. From generation to generation she enters the souls of holy people, and makes them God's friends and prophets. 
How can you treat people like fish or like a swarm of insects that have no ruler to direct them? 
They wrecked your Temple and set it on fire; : they desecrated the place where you are worshipped. 
On the third day Joseph said to them, “I am a God-fearing man, and I will spare your lives on one condition. 
if you obey all his commands that I have given you today, and do what he requires.
So Solomon left the place of worship at Gibeon, where the Tent of the LORD's presence was, and returned to Jerusalem. There he ruled over Israel. 
Moses sent them to war under the command of Phinehas son of Eleazar the priest, who took charge of the sacred objects and the trumpets for giving signals. 
It was harvest time, and the river was in flood. : When the people left the camp to cross the Jordan, the priests went ahead of them, carrying the Covenant Box. As soon as the priests stepped into the river, 
It was winter, and the Festival of the Dedication of the Temple was being celebrated in Jerusalem. 
But now his people have been plundered; : they are locked up in dungeons : and hidden away in prisons. : They were robbed and plundered, : with no one to come to their rescue. 
All the great and wonderful things he did, as well as the whole story of how he promoted Mordecai to high office, are recorded in the official records of the kings of Persia and Media. 
Doomed is the man who builds his house by injustice : and enlarges it by dishonesty; : who makes his countrymen work for nothing : and does not pay their wages. 
Then Peter spoke up. “Look,” he said, “we have left everything and followed you. What will we have?” 
They began to sing hymns of praise, giving thanks for all the mighty deeds God had done while his angel Raphael had been with them.
On this first day offer a food offering to the LORD, a smell pleasing to him: thirteen young bulls, two rams, and fourteen one-year-old male lambs, all without any defects. 
God announced long ago through all the prophets that his Messiah had to suffer; and he made it come true in this way. 
The Jordan was the western border of the tribe of Reuben. These were the cities and towns given to the families of the tribe of Reuben as their possession. 
Listen to this, you that trample on the needy and try to destroy the poor of the country. 
Samuel said to Saul, “I am the one whom the LORD sent to anoint you king of his people Israel. Now listen to what the LORD Almighty says. 
There will be terrible earthquakes, famines, and plagues everywhere; there will be strange and terrifying things coming from the sky. 
and put them in the rings on each side of the altar when it is carried. 
he shall put his hand on its head and kill it in front of the Tent. The priests shall throw its blood against all four sides of the altar 
Praise the LORD God of Israel, Creator of heaven and earth! He has given King David a wise son, full of understanding and skill, who now plans to build a temple for the LORD and a palace for himself. 
At that time Jesus went up a hill to pray and spent the whole night there praying to God. 
Then Peter said, “Look! We have left our homes to follow you.” 
Then you will be pleased with proper sacrifices : and with our burnt offerings; : and bulls will be sacrificed on your altar.
When I heard his voice, I fell to the ground unconscious and lay there face downwards. 
had other sons by his wife, and when they grew up, they forced Jephthah to leave home. They said to him, “You will not inherit anything from our father; you are the son of another woman.” 
Do not be stubborn as they were, but obey the LORD. Come to the Temple in Jerusalem, which the LORD your God has made holy for ever, and worship him so that he will no longer be angry with you. 
I am jealous for you, just as God is; you are like a pure virgin whom I have promised in marriage to one man only, Christ himself. 
Your constant love is my guide; : your faithfulness always leads me. 
There were also Libnah, Ether, Ashan, 
Laban had two daughters; the elder was named Leah, and the younger Rachel. 
He sinned against the LORD, because after his father's death other members of King Ahab's family became his advisers, and they led to his downfall. 
If it is the whole community of Israel that sins and becomes guilty of breaking one of the LORD's commands without intending to, 
They thought that all their pagan idols were gods, even though idols cannot see with their eyes, cannot breathe through their nose, cannot hear with their ears, cannot feel with their fingers, and cannot walk on their legs. 
Your throne, O LORD, has been firm from the beginning, : and you existed before time began. 
If you keep away from someone who has the power to put you to death, you will not have to fear for your life; but if you must go near him, be very careful, or he may kill you. Be conscious that you are walking among hidden traps, that you are an easy target. 
The day after the battle the Philistines went to plunder the corpses, and they found the bodies of Saul and his three sons lying on Mount Gilboa. 
“Then those who are in Judea must run away to the hills.  
But, LORD, you know me; : you see what I do, : and how I love you. : Drag these evil people away like sheep to be butchered; : guard them until it is time for them to be slaughtered. 
In this way you will be given the full right to enter the eternal Kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. 
There is the danger, then, that this business of ours will get a bad name. Not only that, but there is also the danger that the temple of the great goddess Artemis will come to mean nothing and that her greatness will be destroyed — the goddess worshipped by everyone in Asia and in all the world!” 
King Neco made Josiah's son Eliakim king of Judah as successor to Josiah, and changed his name to Jehoiakim. Joahaz was taken to Egypt by King Neco, and there he died. 
The LORD says, : “I have abandoned Israel; : I have rejected my chosen nation. : I have given the people I love : into the power of their enemies. 
Rich people always think they are wise, but a poor person who has insight into character knows better. 
I will send an epidemic and destroy them, but I will make you the father of a nation that is larger and more powerful than they are!” 
At that time I will terrify all their horses and make all their riders go mad. I will watch over the people of Judah, but I will make the horses of their enemies blind. 
When Noah was 600 years old, on the seventeenth day of the second month all the outlets of the vast body of water beneath the earth burst open, all the floodgates of the sky were opened, 
I am telling you the truth: whoever obeys my teaching will never die.” 
I hear that there is corn in Egypt; go there and buy some to keep us from starving to death.” 
But if you do not forgive others, then your Father will not forgive the wrongs you have done. 
“Those who come to me cannot be my disciples unless they love me more than they love father and mother, wife and children, brothers and sisters, and themselves as well.  
The creatures went wherever they wished, and the wheels did exactly what the creatures did, because the creatures controlled them. 
the 24 elders fall down before the one who sits on the throne, and worship him who lives for ever and ever. They throw their crowns down in front of the throne and say
But Micaiah answered, “By the living LORD I promise that I will say what he tells me to!” 
And then they will come to their senses and escape from the trap of the Devil, who had caught them and made them obey his will.
Leah said, “I have been lucky”; so she named him Gad.  
I asked them to bring me their gold ornaments, and those who had any took them off and gave them to me. I threw the ornaments into the fire and out came this bull calf!” 
The servant took the brothers into the house. He gave them water so that they could wash their feet, and he fed their donkeys. 
Yet I will not punish them for this, because you yourselves go off with temple prostitutes, and together with them you offer pagan sacrifices. As the proverb says, ‘A people without sense will be ruined.’ 
Then she gave birth to a son, who will rule over all nations with an iron rod. But the child was snatched away and taken to God and his throne. 
to the house he enters, and say to the owner of the house: ‘The Teacher says, Where is the room where my disciples and I will eat the Passover meal?’  
Common people may be mercifully forgiven for their wrongs, but those in power will face a severe judgement. 
But the servant who does not know what his master wants, and yet does something for which he deserves a whipping, will be punished with a light whipping. Much is required from the person to whom much is given; much more is required from the person to whom much more is given. 
But no one has ever been able to tame the tongue. It is evil and uncontrollable, full of deadly poison. 
What hope is there for the godless : in the hour when God demands their life? 
I did not receive it from any human being, nor did anyone teach it to me. It was Jesus Christ himself who revealed it to me. 
Isaac was forty years old when he married Rebecca, the daughter of Bethuel (an Aramean from Mesopotamia) and sister of Laban. 
to say to the people of Israel: “When you cross the River Jordan and enter the land of Canaan, 
Then Philip began to speak; starting from this passage of scripture, he told him the Good News about Jesus. 
The LORD commanded me to tell the people about my sorrow and to say: : “May my eyes flow with tears day and night, : may I never stop weeping, : for my people are deeply wounded : and are badly hurt. 
The LORD Almighty says, “Wake up, sword, and attack the shepherd who works for me! Kill him, and the sheep will be scattered. I will attack my people 
“Take this book of God's Law and place it beside the Covenant Box of the LORD your God, so that it will remain there as a witness against his people. 
So Joseph died in Egypt at the age of 110. They embalmed his body and put it in a coffin.
I do admit this to you: I worship the God of our ancestors by following that Way which they say is false. But I also believe in everything written in the Law of Moses and the books of the prophets. 
Put the gold altar for burning incense in front of the Covenant Box and hang the curtain at the entrance of the Tent. 
On the north their border began at the Jordan and then went up the slope north of Jericho and westwards through the hill country as far as the desert of Bethaven. 
Mordecai then went back to the palace entrance while Haman hurried home, covering his face in embarrassment. 
Jeuz, Sachia, and Mirmah. His sons all became heads of families. 
those prophets who assured Jerusalem that all was well, when all was not well!” The Sovereign LORD has spoken. 
The world and all that is in it belong to the LORD; : the earth and all who live on it are his. 
And so he is able, now and always, to save those who come to God through him, because he lives for ever to plead with God for them. 
Your words count for more than what you give. Even dew gives some relief during a spell of hot weather. 
Why, then, do you question me? Question the people who heard me. Ask them what I told them — they know what I said.” 
It was nine o'clock in the morning when they crucified him. 
What has happened before will happen again. What has been done before will be done again. There is nothing new in the whole world. 
and say, ‘This is what will happen to Babylonia — it will sink and never rise again, because of the destruction that the LORD is going to bring on it.’ ” : The words of Jeremiah end here.
Anyone who stays in the city will be killed in war or by starvation or disease. But those who go out and surrender to the Babylonians, who are now attacking the city, will not be killed; they will at least escape with their lives. 
I was afraid of the LORD's fierce anger, because he was furious enough to destroy you; but once again the LORD listened to me. 
When the Pharisees heard all this, they sneered at Jesus, because they loved money. 
“If a slave runs away from his or her owner and comes to you for protection, do not send them back. 
That night Paul had a vision in which he saw a Macedonian standing and begging him, “Come over to Macedonia and help us!” 
For the Law of Moses could not make anything perfect. And now a better hope has been provided through which we come near to God. 
But you must not use their blood as food; you must pour it out on the ground like water. 
LORD, will you be angry with us for ever? : Will your anger continue to burn like fire? 
If a man marries his sister or half-sister, they shall be publicly disgraced and driven out of the community. He has had intercourse with his sister and must suffer the consequences. 
“Where is he?” they asked. : “I don't know,” he answered. 
And Samuel said to them, “Let us all go to Gilgal and once more proclaim Saul as our king.” 
Then Isaiah said to King Hezekiah, “This is a sign of what will happen. This year and next you will have only wild grain to eat, but the following year you will be able to sow your corn and harvest it, and plant vines and eat grapes. 
Then Jonathan said to David, “God be with you. The LORD will make sure that you and I, and your descendants and mine, will for ever keep the sacred promise we have made to each other.” Then David left, and Jonathan went back to the town.
Jesus said, “Those who have had a bath are completely clean and do not have to wash themselves, except for their feet.  All of you are clean — all except one.”  
Obadiah answered, “What have I done that you want to put me in danger of being killed by King Ahab? 
Ladan, one of the sons of Gershon, was the ancestor of several family groups, including the family of his son Jehiel. 
and give this money to Aaron and his sons.” 
but Samuel said, “What have you done?” : Saul answered, “The people were deserting me, and you had not come when you said you would; besides that, the Philistines are gathering at Michmash. 
They will be melted in Jerusalem just as silver is melted in a furnace, and then they will know that they are feeling the anger of the LORD.” 
Tremble with fear and stop sinning; : think deeply about this, : when you lie in silence on your beds. 
Then I returned home and washed, so as to purify myself. In deep sorrow I ate my dinner. 
My dear friend, do not imitate what is bad, but imitate what is good. Whoever does good belongs to God; whoever does what is bad has not seen God. 
Finally Nebuzaradan, the commanding officer, took away as prisoners to Babylonia the people who were left in the city, together with those who had deserted to him. 
After this, Joshua and his army went back to the camp at Gilgal.
There is no one to take care of you, : no remedy for your sores, : no hope of healing for you. 
then I will remove my people Israel from the land that I have given them. I will also abandon this Temple which I have consecrated as the place where I am to be worshipped. People everywhere will ridicule Israel and treat her with contempt. 
You were good to me, LORD; : you protected me like a mountain fortress. : But then you hid yourself from me, : and I was afraid. 
The seventh assignment made was for the families of the tribe of Dan. 
Why has your mighty god Apis fallen? : The LORD has struck him down!’ 
I have confidence in your strength; : you are my refuge, O God. 
“ ‘God's curse on anyone who has intercourse with his sister or half sister.’ : “And all the people will answer, ‘Amen!’ 
I will punish my people because they have sinned; they have abandoned me, have offered sacrifices to other gods, and have made idols and worshipped them. 
Sensible people always think before they act, but stupid people advertise their ignorance. 
There was a man in Caesarea named Cornelius, who was a captain in the Roman regiment called “The Italian Regiment”. 
because you are receiving the salvation of your souls, which is the purpose of your faith in him. 
The LORD said, “When all this happens, I will give Gog a burial ground there in Israel, in Travellers' Valley, east of the Dead Sea. Gog and all his army will be buried there, and the valley will be called ‘The Valley of Gog's Army’. 
“The woman you saw is the great city that rules over the kings of the earth.”
When they came to Jesus, they said, “John the Baptist sent us to ask if you are the one he said was going to come, or if we should expect someone else.” 
“No one is holy like the LORD; : there is none like him, : no protector like our God. 
We all know, LORD, that the emperors of Assyria have destroyed many nations, made their lands desolate, 
Elisha sent a servant out to tell him to go and wash himself seven times in the River Jordan, and he would be completely cured of his disease. 
You do not want sacrifices, : or I would offer them; : you are not pleased with burnt offerings. 
I will give you sinews and muscles, and cover you with skin. I will put breath into you and bring you back to life. Then you will know that I am the LORD.” 
I made him a leader and commander of nations, : and through him I showed them my power. 
It is better to trust in the LORD : than to depend on human leaders. 
Hannah prayed: : “The LORD has filled my heart with joy; : how happy I am because of what he has done! : I laugh at my enemies; : how joyful I am because God has helped me! 
Then Jesus said to them, “I ask you: what does our Law allow us to do on the Sabbath? To help or to harm? To save someone's life or destroy it?”  
If a man loses his hair at the back or the front of his head, this does not make him unclean. 
Victory comes from the LORD — : may he bless his people.
We should lie down in shame and let our disgrace cover us. We and our ancestors have always sinned against the LORD our God; we have never obeyed his commands.”
the Spirit, the water, and the blood; and all three give the same testimony. 
I give thanks to God, whom I serve with a clear conscience, as my ancestors did. I thank him as I remember you always in my prayers night and day. 
The number of men who were fed was 5,000. 
But none of the wheat was ruined, because it ripens later. 
“I am giving to you, to your sons, and to your daughters, for all time to come, all the special contributions which the Israelites present to me. This is an unbreakable covenant that I have made with you and your descendants.” 
They fasted and prayed, placed their hands on them, and sent them off. 
And early in the morning you say, ‘It is going to rain, because the sky is red and dark.’ You can predict the weather by looking at the sky, but you cannot interpret the signs concerning these times!  
And don't let him persuade you to rely on the LORD. Don't think that the LORD will save you, and that he will stop our Assyrian army from capturing your city. 
When they had finished digging the grave, Raguel went back into the house and said to his wife, 
The Ammonites marched out and took up their position at the entrance to Rabbah, their capital city, and the kings who had come to help took up their position in the open countryside. 
(Laban gave his slave woman Zilpah to his daughter Leah as her maid.) 
So listen to the plan that I have made against the city of Babylon and to what I intend to do to its people. Even their children will be dragged off, and everyone will be horrified. 
I have entered my garden, : my sweetheart, my bride. : I am gathering my spices and myrrh; : I am eating my honey and honeycomb; : I am drinking my wine and milk. : Eat, lovers, and drink : until you are drunk with love! 
They have profaned my Temple by letting uncircumcised foreigners, people who do not obey me, enter the Temple when the fat and the blood of the sacrifices are being offered to me. So my people have broken my covenant by all the disgusting things they have done. 
Nathan told David everything that God had revealed to him. 
The LORD takes care of those who obey him, : and the land will be theirs for ever. 
Which one of you can prove that I am guilty of sin? If I tell the truth, then why do you not believe me?  
The time is coming! : I will punish your oppressors; : I will rescue all the lame : and bring the exiles home. : I will turn their shame to honour, : and all the world will praise them. 
Do you help God by being so righteous? : There is nothing God needs from you. 
Surrounded by God's works, they keep on looking at them, until they are finally convinced that because the things they see are so beautiful, they must be gods. 
When the people heard this, they began to mourn and did not wear jewellery any more. 
(The ancestor of the priestly clan of Barzillai had married a woman from the clan of Barzillai of Gilead and had taken the name of his father-in-law's clan.) 
Then a furious battle broke out, and Abner and the Israelites were defeated by David's men. 
You grow rich from the sins of my people, and so you want them to sin more and more. 
My dear friends, this command I am writing to you is not new; it is the old command, the one you have had from the very beginning. The old command is the message you have already heard. 
Even if Babylon could climb to the sky and build a strong fortress there, I would still send people to destroy it. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
There is no other nation on earth like Israel, whom you rescued from slavery to make them your own people. The great and wonderful things you did for them spread your fame throughout the world. You rescued your people from Egypt and drove out other nations as your people advanced. 
What we see now is like a dim image in a mirror; then we shall see face to face. What I know now is only partial; then it will be complete — as complete as God's knowledge of me. 
from whom every family in heaven and on earth receives its true name. 
You have made even my closest friends abandon me, : and darkness is my only companion.
His choice is based on his grace, not on what they have done. For if God's choice were based on what people do, then his grace would not be real grace. 
and their graves are in the deepest parts of the world of the dead. All her soldiers fell in battle, and their graves surround her tomb. Yet once they terrified the land of the living. 
In fact, all the provincial officials — governors, administrators, and royal representatives — helped the Jews because they were all afraid of Mordecai. 
I myself have stirred Cyrus to action : to fulfil my purpose and put things right. : I will straighten every road that he travels. : He will rebuild my city, Jerusalem, : and set my captive people free. : No one has hired him or bribed him to do this.” : The LORD Almighty has spoken. 
Because of that sin, the earth was flooded, but Wisdom saved it again. She guided a righteous man in his flimsy wooden boat. 
The king can do anything he likes, so depart from his presence; don't stay in such a dangerous place. 
The Israelites went to the place of worship at Bethel, and there they asked God, “Which tribe should attack the Benjaminites first?” : The LORD answered, “The tribe of Judah.” 
“When you go out to fight against your enemies and you see chariots and horses and an army that outnumbers yours, do not be afraid of them. The LORD your God, who rescued you from Egypt, will be with you. 
I don't have to limit myself to these everyday examples, because the Law says the same thing. 
But Jesus became a priest by means of a vow when God said to him: : “The Lord has made a solemn promise : and will not take it back: : ‘You will be a priest for ever.’ ” 
If someone unintentionally touches anything of human origin that is unclean, whatever it may be, he is guilty as soon as he realizes what he has done. 
I know what it is to be in need and what it is to have more than enough. I have learnt this secret, so that anywhere, at any time, I am content, whether I am full or hungry, whether I have too much or too little. 
So David attacked them at Baal Perazim and defeated them. He said, “God has used me to break through the enemy army like a flood.” So that place is called Baal Perazim.  
When you hear the sound of marching in the treetops, then attack because I will be marching ahead of you to defeat the Philistine army.” 
I gave orders for the rooms to be ritually purified and for the temple equipment, grain offerings, and incense to be put back. 
I have the power to do you harm, but last night the God of your father warned me not to threaten you in any way. 
But Holofernes destroyed all their places of worship and cut down their sacred trees. He had been ordered to destroy all the gods of the land so that all the nations and tribes would worship only Nebuchadnezzar and pray to him as a god. 
My mind and my body may grow weak, : but God is my strength; : he is all I ever need. 
And so Saul stayed with them and went all over Jerusalem, preaching boldly in the name of the Lord. 
The LORD says, : “I will restore my people to their land : and have mercy on every family; : Jerusalem will be rebuilt, : and its palace restored. 
Job claims that he is innocent, : that God refuses to give him justice. 
and the Israelites drove the Syrian army back. David and his men killed 7,000 Syrian chariot drivers and 40,000 foot soldiers. They also killed the Syrian commander, Shobach. 
Remember that I have commanded you to be determined and confident! Don't be afraid or discouraged, for I, the LORD your God, am with you wherever you go.” 
I have done what is right and good; : don't abandon me to my enemies! 
In the same way, a man getting ready to sail on the raging sea will call for help from a piece of wood that is not as strong as the ship he is about to board. 
“On the day when I punish the people of Israel for their sins, I will destroy the altars of Bethel. The corners of every altar will be broken off and will fall to the ground. 
After the earthquake, there was a fire — but the LORD was not in the fire. And after the fire, there was the soft whisper of a voice. 
Then the LORD said to Moses, “Write an account of this victory, so that it will be remembered. Tell Joshua that I will completely destroy the Amalekites.” 
five of them have fallen, one still rules, and the other one has not yet come; when he comes, he must rule only a little while. 
We put our hope in the LORD; : he is our protector and our help. 
He has set the right time for everything. He has given us a desire to know the future, but never gives us the satisfaction of fully understanding what he does. 
Will no one answer all this nonsense? : Does talking so much put you in the right? 
“Everything is in confusion — the land is full of murders and the cities are full of violence. 
Even after we arrived in Macedonia, we had no rest. There were troubles everywhere, quarrels with others, fears in our hearts. 
She said, “I have a small favour to ask of you; please do not refuse me.” : “What is it, mother?” he asked. “I will not refuse you.” 
Even handkerchiefs and aprons he had used were taken to those who were ill, and their diseases were driven away, and the evil spirits would go out of them. 
Yet I was the one who taught Israel to walk. : I took my people up in my arms, : but they did not acknowledge that I took care of them. 
Laban answered, “Agreed. We will do as you suggest.” 
Manoah said to his wife, “We are sure to die, because we have seen God!” 
So he said to his gardener, ‘Look, for three years I have been coming here looking for figs on this fig tree, and I haven't found any. Cut it down! Why should it go on using up the soil?’  
A teacher of the Law came to him. “Teacher,” he said, “I am ready to go with you wherever you go.” 
In addition, there is also God's vow. There was no such vow when the others were made priests. 
Above all, pray to the Most High that he will show you the right thing to do. 
At that same time there was a young Levite who had been living in the town of Bethlehem in Judah. 
Jehoiada also put guards on duty at the temple gates to keep out anyone who was ritually unclean. 
and decided to act. I denounced the leaders and officials of the people and told them, “You are oppressing your fellow-Jews!” : I called a public assembly to deal with the problem 
But anyone who hears my words and does not obey them is like a man who built his house without laying a foundation; when the flood hit that house it fell at once — and what a terrible crash that was!”
He will bring fathers and children together again; otherwise I would have to come and destroy your country.”
As he was blessing them, he departed from them and was taken up into heaven.  
Lecturing your children can sometimes be as out of place as singing to people in mourning, but a whipping is a wise choice of discipline at any time. 
“They don't have to leave,” answered Jesus. “You yourselves give them something to eat!” 
And now, my brothers and sisters, goodbye! Strive for perfection; listen to my appeals; agree with one another; live in peace. And the God of love and peace will be with you. 
No living creature can see it, : Not even a bird in flight. 
Saul gathered them at Bezek: there were 300,000 from Israel and 30,000 from Judah. 
I will take them into this rich and fertile land, as I promised their ancestors. There they will have all the food they want, and they will live comfortably. But they will turn away and worship other gods. They will reject me and break my covenant, 
Your leaders and judges are to go out and measure the distance from the place where the body was found to each of the nearby towns. 
but they will be killed by their own swords, : and their bows will be smashed. 
Tobias did as the angel had told him. Then he cooked the fish, ate part of it, and salted the rest to take along with him. : The two continued on together until they were near Media. 
Judah is like a lion, : Killing his victim and returning to his den, : Stretching out and lying down. : No one dares disturb him. 
“Whoever welcomes you welcomes me; and whoever welcomes me welcomes the one who sent me.  
Caravans from Sheba and Tema search, 
why they are fat and well fed. There is no limit to their evil deeds. They do not give orphans their rights or show justice to the oppressed. 
The temple guards were divided into groups, according to families, and they were assigned duties in the Temple, just as the other Levites were. 
Today you have acknowledged the LORD as your God; you have promised to obey him, to keep all his laws, and to do all that he commands. 
My lover is like the wild flowers : that bloom in the vineyards at Engedi. 
However, Levites have the right to buy back at any time their property in the cities assigned to them. 
But if the priest examines it and finds that the hairs in it have not turned white and that it is not deeper than the surrounding skin, but is light in colour, the priest shall isolate him for seven days. 
There will be no descendants for godless people, : and fire will destroy the homes built by bribery. 
because they performed the ceremonies of purification and the other rituals that God had commanded. The temple musicians and the temple guards also performed their duties in accordance with the regulations made by King David and his son Solomon. 
Devout people will receive the Lord's blessing as their reward, and that blessing can be given in a moment. 
There he heard things which cannot be put into words, things that human lips may not speak. 
This is a true saying: : “If we have died with him, : we shall also live with him. 
I am overcome by sorrow; : strengthen me, as you have promised. 
Adoraim, Lachish, Azekah, 
But now I tell you: do not take revenge on someone who wrongs you. If anyone slaps you on the right cheek, let him slap your left cheek too.  
Tobit and Tobias were terrified and fell to the ground, trembling with fear. 
He said, “Mortal man, break through the wall here.” I broke through it and found a door. 
Then the young women will dance and be happy, : and men, young and old, will rejoice. : I will comfort them and turn their mourning into joy, : their sorrow into gladness. 
Kohath had four sons: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. Kohath lived 133 years. 
People of Israel, stop celebrating your festivals like pagans. You have turned away from your God and have been unfaithful to him. All over the land you have sold yourselves like prostitutes to the god Baal and have loved the corn you thought he paid you with! 
The LORD was angry that day and made a promise
They have made it a wilderness; : it lies desolate before me. : The whole land has become a desert, : and no one cares. 
It's the dry season, isn't it? But I will pray, and the LORD will send thunder and rain. When this happens, you will realize that you committed a great sin against the LORD when you asked him for a king.” 
Friends always show their love. What are relatives for if not to share trouble? 
your domestic animals, and the wild animals in your fields. Everything that it produces may be eaten. 
The famine in Canaan got worse, 
The orderly world shows the greatness of his wisdom; : he is the same for ever and ever. : Nothing can be added to him, and nothing taken away; : he needs no one to give him advice. 
You have brought these men here even though they have not robbed temples or said evil things about our goddess. 
He lets me rest in fields of green grass : and leads me to quiet pools of fresh water. 
As a result of the siege the food shortage in the city was so severe that a donkey's head cost eighty pieces of silver, and 200 grammes of dove's dung cost five pieces of silver. 
All wisdom comes from the Lord, : and Wisdom is with him for ever. 
But God has already reduced the number of days; had he not done so, nobody would survive. For the sake of his chosen people, however, God will reduce the days. 
Justice will again be found in the courts, : and all righteous people will support it. 
Aijalon, and Gath Rimmon. 
He made all other creatures afraid of them; : he gave them authority over all the animals and birds. 
Then why do you track down all my sins : and hunt down every fault I have? 
I am writing this to you about those who are trying to deceive you. 
When the news reached Hadad in Egypt that David had died and that Joab the commander of the army was dead, Hadad said to the king, “Let me go back to my own country.” 
Baruch son of Zabbai built the next section, as far as the entrance to the house of the High Priest Eliashib; 
The walls are to be built with one layer of wood on top of every three layers of stone. All expenses are to be paid by the royal treasury. 
I sing a hymn of thanksgiving : and tell of all your wonderful deeds. 
He also recovered all the flocks and herds; his men drove all the livestock in front of them and said, “This belongs to David!” 
Paul was about to speak when Gallio said to the Jews, “If this were a matter of some evil crime or wrong that has been committed, it would be reasonable for me to be patient with you Jews. 
This is the record of the people that Nebuchadnezzar took away as prisoners: in his seventh year as king he carried away 3,023; 
Perez had two sons, Hezron and Hamul. 
When Jesus finished giving these instructions to his twelve disciples, he left that place and went off to teach and preach in the towns near there. 
The one thing you must not eat is meat with blood still in it; I forbid this because the life is in the blood. 
It does not matter at all whether or not one is circumcised; what does matter is being a new creature. 
If we disobeyed the LORD and built our own altar to burn sacrifices on or to use for grain offerings or fellowship offerings, let the LORD himself punish us. 
Then King Nebuchadnezzar of Assyria sent a message to the Persians and to the people to the west, in the regions of Cilicia, Damascus, Lebanon, Antilebanon, to those along the coast, 
Can you walk on hot coals without burning your feet? 
just as you rejoiced at the devastation of Israel, my own possession. The mountains of Seir, yes, all the land of Edom, will be desolate. Then everyone will know that I am the LORD.”
my father would teach me. He would say, “Remember what I say and never forget it. Do as I tell you, and you will live. 
Then he said to the guards standing near him, “Kill the LORD's priests! They conspired with David and did not tell me that he had run away, even though they knew it all along.” But the guards refused to lift a hand to kill the LORD's priests. 
So he set off after Naaman. When Naaman saw a man running after him, he got down from his chariot to meet him, and asked, “Is something wrong?” 
You people have rejected me; : you have turned your backs on me. : So I stretched out my hand and crushed you : because I was tired of controlling my anger. 
Suddenly Nebuchadnezzar leapt to his feet in amazement. He asked his officials, “Didn't we tie up three men and throw them into the blazing furnace?” : They answered, “Yes, we did, Your Majesty.” 
Their loves, their hates, their passions, all died with them. They will never again take part in anything that happens in this world. 
Even though the fig trees have no fruit : and no grapes grow on the vines, : even though the olive crop fails : and the fields produce no corn, : even though the sheep all die : and the cattle stalls are empty, 
When Isaiah received King Hezekiah's message, 
Their greed is never satisfied. 
Obey the LORD your God and all these blessings will be yours
The army officer saw what had happened, and he praised God, saying, “Certainly he was a good man!” 
They went on from Perga and arrived in Antioch in Pisidia, and on the Sabbath they went into the synagogue and sat down. 
“Tell her to come here,” Elisha ordered. She came and stood in the doorway, 
Then Holofernes' bodyguard and his personal servants came out and led Judith into the tent. 
But we don't want to offend these people. So go to the lake and drop in a line. Pull up the first fish you hook, and in its mouth you will find a coin worth enough for my temple tax and yours. Take it and pay them our taxes.”
But a married man concerns himself with worldly matters, because he wants to please his wife; 
He will carry back to Egypt the images of their gods and the articles of gold and silver dedicated to those gods. After several years of peace 
The few of you who survive in the land of your enemies will waste away because of your own sin and the sin of your ancestors. 
everyone will realize that nothing is better than fearing the Lord, nothing is sweeter than keeping his commands.
“But suppose someone deliberately murders an enemy in cold blood and then escapes to one of those cities for protection. 
I am sure you can, because you're so old : and were there when the world was made! 
The LORD says, “Let no one accuse the people or reprimand them — my complaint is against you priests.  
One day some people from the tribe of Judah came to Joshua at Gilgal. One of them, Caleb son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite, said to him, “You know what the LORD said in Kadesh Barnea about you and me to Moses, the man of God. 
But you that sowed and harvested the corn : Will eat the bread and praise the LORD. : You that tended and gathered the grapes : Will drink the wine in the courts of my Temple.” 
At the LORD's command a member of a group of prophets ordered a fellow-prophet to hit him. But he refused, 
In the church at Antioch there were some prophets and teachers: Barnabas, Simeon (called the Black), Lucius (from Cyrene), Manaen (who had been brought up with Herod the governor), and Saul. 
After these events, in which King Hezekiah served the LORD faithfully, Sennacherib, the emperor of Assyria, invaded Judah. He besieged the fortified cities and gave orders for his army to break their way through the walls. 
It is God himself who makes us, together with you, sure of our life in union with Christ; it is God himself who has set us apart, 
This is the command of the LORD your God, who brought you out of Egypt in order to give you the land of Canaan and to be your God. 
I am not sending you to a nation that speaks a difficult foreign language, but to the Israelites. 
“Do not despise the Edomites; they are your relatives. And do not despise the Egyptians; you once lived in their land. 
You have condemned and murdered innocent people, and they do not resist you. 
When that happens, the peg that was firmly fastened will work loose and fall. And that will be the end of everything that was hanging on it.” The LORD has spoken.
I will bring a wine offering to the LORD, : to thank him for saving me. 
When they came into the region of Zuph, Saul said to his servant, “Let's go back home, or my father might stop thinking about the donkeys and start worrying about us.” 
All their neighbours helped them by giving them many things: silver utensils, gold, supplies, pack animals, other valuables, and offerings for the Temple. 
The stew was poured out for the men to eat, but as soon as they tasted it they exclaimed to Elisha, “It's poisoned!” — and wouldn't eat it. 
The king of Arad in southern Canaan heard that the Israelites were coming. 
For God has already placed Jesus Christ as the one and only foundation, and no other foundation can be laid. 
If you hear that a neighbour has said something he shouldn't, ask him about it. Maybe he didn't say it. If he did, he won't say it again. 
The LORD said to Moses, 
But for just a bribe you let the guilty go free, and you prevent the innocent from getting justice. 
Her victims do not know that the people die who go to her house, that those who have already entered are now deep in the world of the dead.
But Jesus answered, “The scripture says, ‘Human beings cannot live on bread alone.’ ” 
As soon as Jesus got out of the boat, he was met by a man who came out of the burial caves there. This man had an evil spirit in him 
There was once a man named Micah, who lived in the hill country of Ephraim. 
Then he told me to go and lead you, so that you could take possession of the land that he had promised to give to your ancestors. 
Ishmael also killed all the Israelites who were with Gedaliah at Mizpah and the Babylonian soldiers who happened to be there. 
and give stability to the nation. He always protects his people and gives them wisdom and knowledge. Their greatest treasure is their reverence for the LORD. 
I will take the kingdom away from Solomon's son and will give you ten tribes, 
even the most important men kept silent. 
I had a vision from the Sovereign LORD. In it I saw him create a swarm of locusts just after the king's share of the hay had been cut and the grass was starting to grow again. 
We know that your enemies will die, : and all the wicked will be defeated. 
Children are fortunate if they have a father who is honest and does what is right. 
Jesus came to them and touched them. “Get up,” he said. “Don't be afraid!”  
If anyone wants to boast, : he should boast that he knows and understands me, : because my love is constant, : and I do what is just and right. : These are the things that please me. : I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
But when the Messiah comes, no one will know where he is from. And we all know where this man comes from.” 
Joseph commanded the servant in charge of his house, “Fill the men's sacks with as much food as they can carry, and put each man's money in the top of his sack. 
Absalom answered, “Because you wouldn't come when I sent for you. I wanted you to go to the king and ask him from me: ‘Why did I leave Geshur and come here? It would have been better for me to have stayed there.’ ” And Absalom went on, “I want you to arrange for me to see the king, and if I'm guilty, then let him put me to death.” 
There was nothing inside the Covenant Box except the two stone tablets which Moses had placed there at Mount Sinai, when the LORD made a covenant with the people of Israel as they were coming from Egypt. 
They captured it the same day and put everyone there to death, just as they had done at Lachish. 
If you want to be wise, keep the Lord's commands, and he will give you Wisdom in abundance. 
Clans of temple workmen who returned from exile: : Ziha, Hasupha, Tabbaoth, : Keros, Sia, Padon, : Lebana, Hagaba, Shalmai, : Hanan, Giddel, Gahar, : Reaiah, Rezin, Nekoda, : Gazzam, Uzza, Paseah, : Besai, Meunim, Nephushesim, : Bakbuk, Hakupha, Harhur, : Bazlith, Mehida, Harsha, : Barkos, Sisera, Temah, : Neziah, and Hatipha. 
He said to Aaron, “What did these people do to you, that you have made them commit such a terrible sin?” 
Then the fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun, and it was allowed to burn people with its fiery heat. 
and the slope of the valleys that extend to the town of Ar and towards the border of Moab.” 
He must be mature in the faith, so that he will not swell up with pride and be condemned, as the Devil was. 
The Jewish governor told them that they could not eat the food offered to God until there was a priest who could use the Urim and Thummim. 
Whoever questions your authority or disobeys any of your orders will be put to death. Be determined and confident!”
This is how they repay us — they come to drive us out of the land that you gave us. 
“The nations must get ready : and come to the Valley of Judgement. : There I, the LORD, will sit to judge : all the surrounding nations. 
They took their livestock and the possessions they had acquired in Canaan and went to Egypt. Jacob took all his descendants with him
The person who gets money dishonestly : is like a bird that hatches eggs it didn't lay. : In the prime of life he will lose his riches, : and in the end he is nothing but a fool. 
But every third year, I would give a third tithe to widows and orphans and to foreigners living among my people, and we would eat the festival meal together. I did this in keeping with the Law of Moses, which Deborah, the mother of my grandfather Ananiel, had taught me to obey. (I had been left an orphan when my father died.) 
and never left him until she had given him power over an empire and made him the ruler of people who had once oppressed him. She let it be known that a false accusation had been made against him, and she gave him eternal honour. 
With each bull and each ram the offering is to be 17.5 litres of corn, and with each lamb the offering is to be whatever the prince wants to give. Three litres of olive oil are to be offered with each such grain offering of corn. 
Moses was angry with the officers, the commanders of battalions and companies, who had returned from the war. 
The most amazing thing was that the fire burned all the more fiercely in the water, which usually puts fire out. All the forces of nature fight to defend those who are righteous. 
I assure you that many will come from the east and the west and sit down with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob at the feast in the Kingdom of heaven.  
Aaron shall take care of the lamps on the lampstand of pure gold and must see that they burn regularly in the LORD's presence. 
She came up in the crowd behind Jesus and touched the edge of his cloak, and her bleeding stopped at once. 
He will grow strong — but not by his own power. He will cause terrible destruction and be successful in everything he does. He will bring destruction on powerful men and on God's own people. 
Those who were in deepest misery praised me, : and I helped widows find security. 
His mother answered, “Let any curse against you fall on me, my son; just do as I say, and go and get the goats for me.” 
The woman saw that she had been found out, so she came trembling and threw herself at Jesus' feet. There in front of everybody, she told him why she had touched him and how she had been healed at once. 
Naomi said to her, “Now be patient, Ruth, until you see how this all turns out. Boaz will not rest today until he settles the matter.”
But when anyone gets angry and deliberately kills someone else, he is to be put to death, even if he has run to my altar for safety. 
“The Lord jeered at all my strongest soldiers; : He sent an army to destroy my young men. : He crushed my people like grapes in a winepress. 
Jacob got green branches of poplar, almond, and plane trees and stripped off some of the bark so that the branches had white stripes on them. 
For all time to come any of the male descendants of Aaron may eat it as their continuing share of the food offered to the LORD. Anyone else who touches a food offering will be harmed by the power of its holiness. 
Almost every day new men joined David's forces, so that his army was soon enormous. 
When the Israelites saw the size of the army, they were terrified and said to one another, “Those soldiers are going to eat up everything in sight. There's not enough food in the mountains, valleys, and hills put together to feed an army like that.” 
Did God get his power from someone else? : Did someone put him in charge of the world? 
“Do not cheat poor and needy hired servants, whether fellow-Israelites or foreigners living in one of your towns. 
He ordered the crowd to sit down on the ground. Then he took the seven loaves, gave thanks to God, broke them, and gave them to his disciples to distribute to the crowd; and the disciples did so. 
He asked me, “Don't you know?” : “No, I don't, sir,” I answered. 
They were afraid that the ship would go on the rocks, so they lowered four anchors from the back of the ship and prayed for daylight. 
And take these ten cheeses to the commanding officer. Find out how your brothers are getting on and bring back something to show that you saw them and that they are well. 
and to register all the men between the ages of thirty and fifty who were qualified to work in the Tent of the LORD's presence. 
Then the LORD said to Gideon, “You still have too many men. Take them down to the water, and I will separate them for you there. If I tell you a man should go with you, he will go. If I tell you a man should not go with you, he will not go.” 
Confusion spread through the whole city, and the people all ran together, seized Paul, and dragged him out of the Temple. At once the Temple doors were closed. 
He used parables to tell them many things. :   “Once there was a man who went out to sow corn.  
A week later the disciples were together again indoors, and Thomas was with them. The doors were locked, but Jesus came and stood among them and said, “Peace be with you.”  
I asked the angel, “Where are they taking it?” 
Count seven times seven years, a total of 49 years. 
Remember, LORD, what he promised, : the vow he made to you, the Mighty God of Jacob
If you do, you will never get rich; if you don't pay attention to small matters, you will gradually ruin yourself. 
Zebah and Zalmunna were at Karkor with their army. Of the whole army of desert tribesmen, only about 15,000 were left; 120,000 soldiers had been killed. 
You and all you do are nothing; : those who worship you are disgusting! 
He killed powerful kings; : his love is eternal; 
and when Jacob heard that there was corn in Egypt, he sent his sons, our ancestors, on their first visit there. 
and our Temple, the sacred and beautiful place where our ancestors praised you, has been destroyed by fire. All the places we loved are in ruins. 
Your enemies will help themselves to your wealth and merchandise. They will pull down your walls and shatter your luxurious houses. They will take the stones and wood and all the rubble, and dump them into the sea. 
“But you will not suffer any setbacks, nor will you fail to achieve your goal. When the Israelites sin and make their God angry, they will die. 
The king and the leaders admitted that they had sinned, and they said, “What the LORD is doing is just.” 
The angel said to me, “Daniel, God loves you. Stand up and listen carefully to what I am going to say. I have been sent to you.” When he had said this, I stood up, still trembling. 
They prevent the poor from getting their rights : and force the needy to run and hide. 
He said, “Go to Nineveh, that great city, and proclaim to the people the message I have given you.” 
In the twentieth year of the reign of King Jeroboam of Israel, Asa became king of Judah, 
David heard that the Philistines were attacking the town of Keilah and were stealing the newly harvested corn. 
Manoah replied, “Tell us your name, so that we can honour you when your words come true.” 
How was our ancestor Abraham put right with God? It was through his actions, when he offered his son Isaac on the altar. 
I destroyed the power of cruel men : and rescued their victims. 
I do not keep company with worthless people; : I have nothing to do with hypocrites. 
But it is easier for heaven and earth to disappear than for the smallest detail of the Law to be done away with. 
When they joined the rest of the disciples, they saw a large crowd round them and some teachers of the Law arguing with them. 
But now I said to them, “See what trouble we are in because Jerusalem is in ruins and its gates are destroyed! Let's rebuild the city walls and put an end to our disgrace.” 
the people of Edom and the Ishmaelites; : the people of Moab and the Hagrites; 
Meanwhile, a prophet went to King Ahab and said, “The LORD says, ‘Don't be afraid of that huge army! I will give you victory over it today, and you will know that I am the LORD.’ ” 
I will make a bargain with you in the name of the emperor. I will give you 2,000 horses if you can find that many riders. 
No part of a grain offering that a priest makes may be eaten; all of it must be burnt. 
For all time to come, this special gift is to be given to the LORD from the bread you bake. 
Then I heard a loud voice speaking from the temple to the seven angels: “Go and pour out the seven bowls of God's anger on the earth!” 
Do you think the people of Israel are under a curse? Has the LORD lost his patience? Would he really do such things? Doesn't he speak kindly to those who do right?” 
Then they took him and threw him into the well, which was dry. 
The descendants of Cush were the people of Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah, and Sabteca. The descendants of Raamah were the people of Sheba and Dedan. 
On the stairway built by King Ahaz, the LORD will make the shadow go back ten steps.” And the shadow moved back ten steps. 
When the five men returned to Zorah and Eshtaol, their countrymen asked them what they had found out. 
Offer the proper grain offering of flour mixed with olive oil: three kilogrammes of flour with the bull, two kilogrammes with the ram, 
We answered, ‘We cannot go; we will not be admitted to the man's presence unless our youngest brother is with us. We can go only if our youngest brother goes also.’ 
The Spirit gives one person the power to work miracles; to another, the gift of speaking God's message; and to yet another, the ability to tell the difference between gifts that come from the Spirit and those that do not. To one person he gives the ability to speak in strange tongues, and to another he gives the ability to explain what is said. 
Shame on you! Surely there is at least one wise person in your fellowship who can settle a dispute between fellow-Christians. 
They will never enter the land which I promised to their ancestors. None of those who have rejected me will ever enter it. 
“You are to spend this money carefully and buy bulls, rams, lambs, corn, and wine and offer them on the altar of the Temple in Jerusalem. 
My sheep listen to my voice; I know them, and they follow me.  
When the hour came, Jesus took his place at the table with the apostles. 
and Azariah the High Priest, a descendant of Zadok, said to him, “Since the people started bringing their gifts to the Temple, there has been enough to eat and a large surplus besides. We have all this because the LORD has blessed his people.” 
I listened patiently while you were speaking : and waited while you searched for wise phrases. 
“From the time the daily sacrifices are stopped, that is, from the time of The Awful Horror, 1,290 days will pass. 
He did not tear down the pagan places of worship, and the people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense there. 
May he give us happiness and allow us to have peace in Israel for ever. 
Jerusalem, Hebron, 
They stirred up the LORD's anger by their actions, : and a terrible disease broke out among them. 
My other sheep have to eat the grass you trample down and drink the water you muddy. 
And so the LORD said to the people of Jerusalem, “I will take up your cause and will make your enemies pay for what they did to you. I will dry up the source of Babylonia's water and make its rivers go dry. 
You should each judge your own conduct. If it is good, then you can be proud of what you yourself have done, without having to compare it with what someone else has done. 
Let's sell him to these Ishmaelites. Then we won't have to hurt him; after all, he is our brother, our own flesh and blood.” His brothers agreed, 
Now, all this is an example for us, to warn us not to desire evil things, as they did, 
The LORD God asked the woman, “Why did you do this?” : She replied, “The snake tricked me into eating it.” 
I will make your oppressors kill each other; : they will be drunk with murder and rage. : Then the whole human race will know that I am the LORD, : the one who saves you and sets you free. : They will know that I am Israel's powerful God.”
Then the man left and told the Jewish authorities that it was Jesus who had healed him. 
He has kept the promise he made to our ancestors, : and has come to the help of his servant Israel. 
“If you live according to my laws and obey my commands, 
Throughout our lives we are always in danger of death for Jesus' sake, in order that his life may be seen in this mortal body of ours. 
My lover speaks to me. : Come then, my love; : my darling, come with me. 
I thought that in this world of the living : I would never again see the LORD : Or any living person. 
A good wife is her husband's pride and joy; but a wife who brings shame on her husband is like a cancer in his bones. 
that the LORD, the God of Israel, had said, “Baruch, 
We have been through disaster and ruin; we live in danger and fear. 
Share your belongings with your needy fellow-Christians, and open your homes to strangers. 
“The eyes are like a lamp for the body. If your eyes are sound, your whole body will be full of light;  
He will keep the agreement he made with Abraham : and his promise to Isaac. 
But all those things that I might count as profit I now reckon as loss for Christ's sake. 
Because you did this, God has condemned you. Your people will always be slaves, cutting wood and carrying water for the sanctuary of my God.” 
An impolite person is like one of those indecent stories that ignorant people are always telling. 
Jesus was walking through some cornfields on the Sabbath. As his disciples walked along with him, they began to pick the ears of corn. 
Find out whether the soil is fertile and whether the land is wooded. And be sure to bring back some of the fruit that grows there.” (It was the season when grapes were beginning to ripen.) 
This is what the LORD said through the earlier prophets at the time when Jerusalem was prosperous and filled with people and when there were many people living not only in the towns round the city but also in the southern region and in the western foothills. 
Then Jacob said to Laban, “The time is up; let me marry your daughter.” 
In the synagogue was a man who had the spirit of an evil demon in him; he screamed out in a loud voice, 
I have seen the defeat of my enemies : and heard the cries of the wicked. 
The things I predicted have now come true. : Now I will tell you of new things : even before they begin to happen.” 
The LORD gives a signal to call for a distant nation. He whistles for them to come from the ends of the earth. And here they come, swiftly, quickly! 
The Moabites said to the leaders of the Midianites, “This horde will soon destroy everything round us, like a bull eating the grass in a pasture.” So King Balak 
At noon Elijah started making fun of them: “Pray louder! He is a god! Maybe he is daydreaming or relieving himself, or perhaps he's gone on a journey! Or maybe he's sleeping, and you've got to wake him up!” 
What I am telling you in the dark you must repeat in broad daylight, and what you have heard in private you must announce from the housetops.  
First of all, then, I urge that petitions, prayers, requests, and thanksgivings be offered to God for all people; 
How happy are those who have no doubts about me!” 
“Tomorrow is the New Moon Festival,” David replied, “and I am supposed to eat with the king. But if it's all right with you, I will go and hide in the fields until the evening of the day after tomorrow. 
The LORD forbid that I should try to harm the one whom the LORD has made king! Let's take his spear and his water jar, and go.” 
And now I will crush you to the ground, and you will groan like a cart loaded with corn. 
He may enter the Most Holy Place only after he has brought a young bull for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering.” 
The people of Israel who survive will do no wrong to anyone, tell no lies, nor try to deceive. They will be prosperous and secure, afraid of no one.” 
When Sanballat, Tobiah, and an Arab named Geshem heard what we were planning to do, they laughed at us and said, “What do you think you're doing? Are you going to rebel against the emperor?” 
The angel said, “Do not harm the earth, the sea, or the trees, until we mark the servants of our God with a seal on their foreheads.” 
Jacob answered, “First make a vow that you will give me your rights.” : Esau made the vow and gave his rights to Jacob. 
You dishonour me in front of my people in order to get a few handfuls of barley and a few pieces of bread. You kill people who don't deserve to die, and you keep people alive who don't deserve to live. So you tell lies to my people, and they believe you.” 
At the next Year of Restoration the field will become the LORD's permanent property; it shall belong to the priests. 
Now, I assure you that wherever this gospel is preached all over the world, what she has done will be told in memory of her.” 
For he himself had said, “A prophet is not respected in his own country.”  
Israel has a chance to live, but is too foolish to take it — like a child about to be born, who refuses to come out of the womb. 
And all the prophets who had a message, including Samuel and those who came after him, also announced what has been happening these days. 
Rehoboam replied, “Give me three days to consider the matter. Then come back.” So the people left. 
The officials of Judah and of Jerusalem, together with the palace officials, the priests, and all the leaders, made a covenant with me by walking between the two halves of a bull that they had cut in two. But they broke the covenant and did not keep its terms. So I will do to these people what they did to the bull. 
I signed and sealed the deed, had it witnessed, and weighed out the money on scales. 
When Barak attacked with his army, the LORD threw Sisera into confusion together with all his chariots and men. Sisera got down from his chariot and fled on foot. 
David was sitting in the space between the inner and outer gates of the city. The watchman went up to the top of the wall and stood on the roof of the gateway; he looked out and saw a man running alone. 
“Zebulun will live beside the sea. : His shore will be a haven for ships. : His territory will reach as far as Sidon. 
Don't be jealous of a sinner's success; you don't know what kind of disaster is in store for him. 
Shephupham, and Hupham. 
When Judgement Day comes, many will say to me, ‘Lord, Lord! In your name we spoke God's message, by your name we drove out many demons and performed many miracles!’  
and all those who live and believe in me will never die. Do you believe this?” 
Every star and every constellation will stop shining, the sun will be dark when it rises, and the moon will give no light. 
These regulations are to be observed for all time to come. This ritual must be performed once a year to purify the people of Israel from all their sins. : So Moses did as the Lord had commanded.
They were burnt by the fierce heat, and they cursed the name of God, who has authority over these plagues. But they would not turn from their sins and praise his greatness. 
But then you changed your minds again and dishonoured me. All of you took back the slaves whom you had set free as they desired, and you forced them into slavery again. 
For all things were created by him, and all things exist through him and for him. To God be the glory for ever! Amen.
The firstborn of an animal already belongs to the LORD, so no one may dedicate it to him as a freewill offering. A calf, a lamb, or a kid belongs to the LORD, 
I give you thanks, O Lord and King; : I praise you as my God and Saviour. : I give you thanks, 
The tribe of Dan: the clan of Shuham, 
Ten days later the LORD spoke to me; 
because then they would lead your children away from the LORD to worship other gods. If that happens, the LORD will be angry with you and destroy you at once. 
Give us today the food we need.   
If, then, you have not been faithful in handling worldly wealth, how can you be trusted with true wealth?  
They replied, “If you are kind to these people and try to please them by giving a considerate answer, they will always serve you loyally.” 
“Mortal man,” he said, “how does a vine compare with a tree? What good is a branch of a grapevine compared with the trees of the forest? 
and one kilogramme with each lamb, with the required wine offerings. 
Do not bow down to any idol or worship it, because I am the LORD your God and I tolerate no rivals. I bring punishment on those who hate me and on their descendants down to the third and fourth generation. 
Do your work as slaves cheerfully, as though you served the Lord, and not merely human beings. 
because they had not understood the real meaning of the feeding of the 5,000; their minds could not grasp it. 
they will be treacherous, reckless, and swollen with pride; they will love pleasure rather than God; 
Gaal led the men of Shechem out and fought Abimelech. 
This was after the LORD had defeated King Sihon of the Amorites, who ruled in the town of Heshbon, and King Og of Bashan, who ruled in the towns of Ashtaroth and Edrei. 
These are the descendants of Esau, the ancestor of the Edomites. 
We'll call ourselves right if we are strong enough to get what we want. No one ever got anywhere by being weak! 
Tell the city what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying: because you have murdered so many of your own people and have defiled yourself by worshipping idols, your time is coming. 
You can tell how well a tree has been cared for by the fruit it bears, and you can tell a person's feelings by the way he expresses himself. 
And he said to them, “Keep watch, and pray that you will not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.” 
Moses took the body of Joseph with him, as Joseph had made the Israelites solemnly promise to do. Joseph had said, “When God rescues you, you must carry my body with you from this place.” 
“God's glory has left Israel,” she said, “because God's Covenant Box has been captured.”
You have always protected him and his family and everything he owns. You bless everything he does, and you have given him enough cattle to fill the whole country. 
You worked amazing miracles against the king, : against his officials and the people of his land, : because you knew how they oppressed your people. : You won then the fame you still have today. 
“When you are in camp in time of war, you are to avoid anything that would make you ritually unclean. 
Near the western pavilion there were four guards by the road and two at the pavilion itself. 
“O God, our God, how great you are! : How terrifying, how powerful! : You faithfully keep your covenant promises. : From the time when Assyrian kings oppressed us, : even till now, how much we have suffered! : Our kings, our leaders, our priests and prophets, : our ancestors, and all our people have suffered. : Remember how much we have suffered! 
Then the spirits brought the kings together in the place that in Hebrew is called Armageddon. 
This, then, is the law about animals and birds, about everything that lives in the water, and everything that moves on the ground. 
She went running to Simon Peter and the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and told them, “They have taken the Lord from the tomb, and we don't know where they have put him!” 
All his sons and daughters came to comfort him, but he refused to be comforted and said, “I will go down to the world of the dead still mourning for my son.” So he continued to mourn for his son Joseph. 
Think! Do you want him to be angry with you on the day you die? When you face his judgement, do you want him to turn his back on you? 
Are you trying to prove that I am unjust — : to put me in the wrong and yourself in the right? 
The clan of Kohath was composed of the families of Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. 
there is one God and Father of all, who is Lord of all, works through all, and is in all. 
May he rule for ever in your presence, O God; : protect him with your constant love and faithfulness. 
But others made fun of the believers, saying, “These people are drunk!” 
Pay attention to your teacher and learn all you can. 
Remember that you owe your life to them. How can you ever repay them for all they have done for you? 
So then, make my teaching your treasure and joy, and you will be well instructed. 
saying, “Come with me and see for yourself how devoted I am to the LORD.” And they rode on together to Samaria. 
Then I said, ‘Here I am, : to do your will, O God, : just as it is written of me in the book of the Law.’ ” 
But the old man went outside and said to them, “No, my friends! Please! Don't do such an evil, immoral thing! This man is my guest. 
The danger of death was round me, : and the grave set its trap for me. 
after that, he lived another 209 years and had other children. 
Should I go on? There isn't enough time for me to speak of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel, and the prophets. 
of Judah to say to him, “The god you are trusting in has told you that you will not fall into my hands, but don't let that deceive you. 
Bengeber: the city of Ramoth in Gilead, and the villages in Gilead belonging to the clan of Jair, a descendant of Manasseh, and the region of Argob in Bashan, sixty large towns in all, fortified with walls and with bronze bars on the gates 
Through him God made all things; not one thing in all creation was made without him. 
We have taken the money that was kept in the Temple and handed it over to the workmen and their supervisors.” 
Your days of grief will come to an end. : I, the LORD, will be your eternal light, : More lasting than the sun and moon. 
People open their purses and pour out gold; : they weigh out silver on the scales. : They hire a goldsmith to make a god; : then they bow down and worship it! 
But a bystander named Elihu could not control his anger any longer, because Job was justifying himself and blaming God. (Elihu was the son of Barakel, a descendant of Buz, and belonged to the clan of Ram.) 
Why spend money on what does not satisfy? : Why spend your wages and still be hungry? : Listen to me and do what I say, : and you will enjoy the best food of all. 
to obey your orders and keep them faithfully until the Day when our Lord Jesus Christ will appear. 
When a person dies, all he then possesses is worms, flies, and maggots. 
The famous city that used to be happy is completely deserted. 
Ten leading men went with Phinehas, one from each of the western tribes and each one the head of a family among the clans. 
The ruling prince will go from the outer courtyard into the entrance room by the gateway and stand beside the posts of the gate while the priests burn his sacrifices whole and offer his fellowship offerings. There at the gate he must worship and then go out again. The gate must not be shut until evening. 
For I received from the Lord the teaching that I passed on to you: that the Lord Jesus, on the night he was betrayed, took a piece of bread, 
They suffered, whether they were near your people or far from them. 
People appreciate a generous host, and he deserves their praise. 
“Your Majesty should know that we went to the province of Judah and found that the Temple of the great God is being rebuilt with large stone blocks and with wooden beams set in the wall. The work is being done with great care and is moving ahead steadily. 
Wisdom can make your life pleasant and lead you safely through it. 
Give new signs, perform new miracles; show us your glorious strength! 
For God said, ‘Respect your father and your mother,’ and ‘Whoever curses his father or his mother is to be put to death.’  
Another message came to me from the LORD. 
Seven days later the flood came. 
In the desert he gave you manna to eat, food that your ancestors had never eaten. He sent hardships on you to test you, so that in the end he could bless you with good things. 
Perhaps so, but it is better to have only a little, with peace of mind, than to be busy all the time with both hands, trying to catch the wind. 
Wherever the stream flows, there will be all kinds of animals and fish. The stream will make the water of the Dead Sea fresh, and wherever it flows, it will bring life. 
God made our ears — can't he hear? : He made our eyes — can't he see? 
Someone who is in the field must not go back to the house for his cloak.  
After all, it is none of my business to judge outsiders. God will judge them. But should you not judge the members of your own fellowship? As the scripture says, 
so that his people would obey his laws : and keep all his commands. : Praise the LORD!
Do not be afraid of him. Just tell him what you have told us, and he will treat you well.” 
That is how you prevent the poor from having their rights and from getting justice. That is how you take the property that belongs to widows and orphans. 
He broke his oath and the treaty he had made. He did all these things, and now he will not escape.” 
They entered the city and went up to the room where they were staying: Peter, John, James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James son of Alphaeus, Simon the Patriot, and Judas son of James. 
“When the king of Syria's final hour has almost come, the king of Egypt will attack him, and the king of Syria will fight back with all his power, using chariots, horses, and many ships. He will invade many countries, like the waters of a flood. 
A donkey should be given its fodder and its burden, and it should be beaten. A slave should be given food and work, and should be disciplined. 
Can't you ever forgive my sin? : Can't you pardon the wrong I do? : Soon I will be in my grave, : and I'll be gone when you look for me.
Which one of the two did what his father wanted?” : “The elder one,” they answered. : So Jesus said to them, “I tell you: the tax collectors and the prostitutes are going into the Kingdom of God ahead of you.  
The priests are to have the best of all the first harvest and of everything else that is offered to me. Each time the people bake bread, they are to give the priests the first loaf as an offering, and my blessing will rest on their homes. 
Again Jesus said to them, “I will go away; you will look for me, but you will die in your sins. You cannot go where I am going.” 
The emperor sent this answer: : “To Rehum, the governor, to Shimshai, secretary of the province, and to their associates who live in Samaria and in the rest of West Euphrates, greetings. 
When morning came, there was a tremendous confusion among the guards — what had happened to Peter? 
He alone protects and saves me; : he is my defender, : and I shall never be defeated. 
And so your Temple will be abandoned. I assure you that you will not see me until the time comes when you say, ‘God bless him who comes in the name of the Lord.’ ”
Because I have been foolish, : my sores stink and rot. 
He treats us like foreigners. He sold us, and now he has spent all the money he was paid for us. 
Others will fall out with you over some argument, and then embarrass you by letting everyone know about it. 
He had just thrown himself down on Esther's couch to beg for mercy, when the king came back into the room from the gardens. Seeing this, the king cried out, “Is this man going to rape the queen right here in front of me, in my own palace?” : The king had no sooner said this than the eunuchs covered Haman's head. 
You have worn me out, God; : you have let my family be killed. 
“Many times the evil spirit has tried to kill him by throwing him in the fire and into water. Have pity on us and help us, if you possibly can!” 
So if your hand makes you lose your faith, cut it off! It is better for you to enter life without a hand than to keep both hands and go off to hell, to the fire that never goes out.  
Then you must bring your youngest brother to me. This will prove that you have been telling the truth, and I will not put you to death.” : They agreed to this 
He had a fleet of ocean-going ships sailing with King Hiram's fleet. Every three years his fleet would return, bringing gold, silver, ivory, apes, and monkeys. 
The LORD is pleased when good people pray, but hates the sacrifices that the wicked bring him. 
Jashub, and Shimron. 
Then Jesus' mother and brothers arrived. They stood outside the house and sent in a message, asking for him. 
“You have heard that people were told in the past, ‘Do not commit murder; anyone who does will be brought to trial.’  
the Sovereign LORD, have for them: Israel's enemies gloated and said, ‘Now those ancient hills are ours!’ 
Then we will go and fetch God's Covenant Box, which was ignored while Saul was king.” 
Everything else that Pekahiah did is recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel. 
So the angel swung his sickle on the earth, cut the grapes from the vine, and threw them into the winepress of God's furious anger. 
or sits on anything the man has sat on must wash his clothes and have a bath, and he remains unclean until evening. 
Be merciful just as your Father is merciful. 
If you laugh at poor people, you insult the God who made them. You will be punished if you take pleasure in someone's misfortune. 
A well-travelled person with wide experience knows many things and talks sense. 
but if you make one voluntarily, be sure that you keep it. 
Fear the Lord with all your heart, and have respect for his priests. 
Jesus left there and went along by Lake Galilee. He climbed a hill and sat down. 
You know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ; rich as he was, he made himself poor for your sake, in order to make you rich by means of his poverty. 
Our God is in heaven; : he does whatever he wishes. 
In front of the rooms there was a passage just like the one on the north side. It had the same measurements, the same design, and the same kind of entrances. 
But they were terribly afraid and said to one another, “Who is this man? Even the wind and the waves obey him!”
Then the dazzling light left the city and moved to the mountain east of it. 
When Saul and his men heard this, they were terrified. 
Bloom like a sweet-smelling lily, and send your fragrance into the air like incense. Sing the Lord's praises, and thank him for all that he has done. 
Because of your love for me, kill my enemies : and destroy all my oppressors, : for I am your servant.
“You pursued us and killed us; your mercy was hidden by your anger, 
These are the rules that the LORD gave Moses concerning vows made by an unmarried woman living in her father's house or by a married woman.
‘We played wedding music for you, but you wouldn't dance! We sang funeral songs, but you wouldn't cry!’  
You will remember your evil conduct and the wrongs that you committed, and you will be disgusted with yourselves because of your sins and your iniquities. 
leave your gift there in front of the altar, go at once and make peace with your brother, and then come back and offer your gift to God. 
He will depend on Eleazar the priest, who will learn my will by using the Urim and Thummim. In this way Eleazar will direct Joshua and the whole community of Israel in all their affairs.” 
The LORD said to Moses, “Do not be afraid of him. I will give you victory over him, all his people, and his land. Do to him what you did to Sihon, the Amorite king who ruled at Heshbon.” 
I am a friend of all who serve you, : of all who obey your laws. 
When the Israelite soldiers returned from the slaughter, they helped themselves to what was left. There was so much of it that the people of the towns and villages in the hill-country also shared in the loot. 
Saul answered, “May the LORD bless you for being so kind to me! 
Yet he has cheated me and changed my wages ten times. But God did not let him harm me. 
So the people got branches and built shelters on the flat roofs of their houses, in their yards, in the temple courtyard, and in the public squares by the Water Gate and by the Ephraim Gate. 
So he sent his son Joram to greet King David and congratulate him on his victory over Hadadezer, against whom Toi had fought many times. Joram took David presents made of gold, silver, and bronze. 
God, be merciful to us and bless us; : look on us with kindness, 
A large number of people heard that Jesus was in Bethany, so they went there, not only because of Jesus but also to see Lazarus, whom Jesus had raised from death. 
The God of Jacob is not like them; : he is the one who made everything, : and he has chosen Israel to be his very own people. : The LORD Almighty is his name. 
His spear was as thick as the bar on a weaver's loom, and its iron head weighed about seven kilogrammes. A soldier walked in front of him carrying his shield. 
It is useless to work so hard for a living, : getting up early and going to bed late. : For the LORD provides for those he loves, : while they are asleep. 
The four sons of Asaph: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah, and Asharelah. They were under the direction of Asaph, who proclaimed God's messages whenever the king commanded. 
While they were eating, they suddenly saw a group of Ishmaelites travelling from Gilead to Egypt. Their camels were loaded with spices and resins. 
and with a finger of his right-hand sprinkle some of it seven times there in the LORD's presence. 
My heart aches with longing; : I want to know your judgements at all times. 
So Jesus called them all together and said, “You know that the rulers of the heathen have power over them, and the leaders have complete authority.  
A hard-working farmer has plenty to eat, but it is stupid to waste time on useless projects. 
The LORD is our God; : his commands are for all the world. 
As they approach, everyone is terrified; : every face turns pale. 
to which the officer had answered, “That can't happen — not even if the LORD himself were to send grain at once!” And Elisha had replied, “You will see it happen, but you will never eat any of the food.” 
In the evening a large flock of quails flew in, enough to cover the camp, and in the morning there was dew all round the camp. 
Jesus answered, “Do you expect the guests at a wedding party to be sad as long as the bridegroom is with them? Of course not! But the day will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast. 
Those who do not carry their own cross and come after me cannot be my disciples. 
let the people of Zion be glad! : You give right judgements; : let there be joy in the cities of Judah! 
“Ah! What do you want with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Are you here to destroy us? I know who you are: you are God's holy messenger!” 
“Buckle on your swords!” he ordered, and they all did. David also buckled on his sword and left with about 400 of his men, leaving 200 behind with the supplies. 
Not until the next morning did Jacob discover that it was Leah. He went to Laban and said, “Why did you do this to me? I worked to get Rachel. Why have you tricked me?” 
There, in the presence of the LORD your God, who has blessed you, you and your families will eat and enjoy the good things that you have worked for. 
and that his love is constant. : You yourself, O Lord, reward everyone according to his deeds.
You also teach, ‘If someone swears by the altar, he isn't bound by his vow; but if he swears by the gift on the altar, he is bound.’  
put sashes round their waists and tie caps on their heads. That is how you are to ordain Aaron and his sons. They and their descendants are to serve me as priests for ever. 
But Moses replied, “When I go to the Israelites and say to them, ‘The God of your ancestors sent me to you,’ they will ask me, ‘What is his name?’ So what can I tell them?” 
Mountains quake in the presence of the LORD; : hills melt before him. : The earth shakes when the LORD appears; : the world and all its people tremble. 
People sneer at me; : they crowd round me and slap my face. 
It was your will and purpose to do this for me and to show me my future greatness. 
Each of the twelve stones had engraved on it the name of one of the sons of Jacob, in order to represent the twelve tribes of Israel. 
“This is what was written: ‘Number, number, weight, divisions.’ 
He bent over and saw the linen wrappings, but he did not go in. 
A reliable messenger is refreshing to the one who sends him, like cold water in the heat of harvest time. 
When evil people attack me and try to kill me, : they stumble and fall. 
King Hezekiah re-established the organization of the priests and Levites, under which they each had specific duties. These included offering the burnt offerings and the fellowship offerings, taking part in the temple worship, and giving praise and thanks in the various parts of the Temple. 
And so I have been prevented many times from coming to you. 
They proclaimed a day of fasting, called the people together, and gave Naboth the place of honour. 
Then the LORD said to Moses, “Go to the king and tell him that the LORD says, ‘Let my people go, so that they can worship me. 
The prophet who has had a dream should say it is only a dream, but the prophet who has heard my message should proclaim that message faithfully. What good is straw compared with wheat? 
Then the LORD said to me, “You are going to see them do even more disgusting things than that.” 
He said to his people, “These Israelites are so numerous and strong that they are a threat to us. 
Rachel had taken the household gods and put them in a camel's saddlebag and was sitting on them. Laban searched through the whole tent, but did not find them. 
“The LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, has ordered you to take these deeds, both the sealed deed of purchase and the open copy, and to place them in a clay jar, so that they may be preserved for years to come. 
Every time the king went to the Temple, the guards carried the shields, and then returned them to the guardroom. 
They lived in the territory of Bashan and Gilead, in the towns there and all over the pasture lands of Sharon. 
He covered it with pure gold and put a gold border round it. 
Moses wrote this about being put right with God by obeying the Law: “Whoever obeys the commands of the Law will live.” 
Do not follow the practices of the people of Egypt, where you once lived, or of the people in the land of Canaan, where I am now taking you. 
Some of the court officials saw her and told the king how beautiful she was; so she was taken to his palace. 
“She must be the wisest and most beautiful woman in the world,” they commented one to another. 
You cover up your ignorance with lies; : you are like doctors who can't heal anyone. 
“Do not accuse anyone falsely. 
The king will ignore the god his ancestors served, and also the god that women love. In fact, he will ignore every god, because he will think he is greater than any of them. 
Omri died and was buried in Samaria, and his son Ahab succeeded him as king. 
I have considered my conduct, : and I promise to follow your instructions. 
There was a wise woman in the city who shouted from the wall, “Listen! Listen! Tell Joab to come here; I want to speak with him.” 
“I, Jesus, have sent my angel to announce these things to you in the churches. I am descended from the family of David; I am the bright morning star.” 
Whoever preaches must preach God's messages; whoever serves must serve with the strength that God gives, so that in all things praise may be given to God through Jesus Christ, to whom belong glory and power for ever and ever. Amen. 
The Lord will make you go through hard times, but he himself will be there to teach you, and you will not have to search for him any more. 
The two columns were identical: each one was eight metres high and 5.3 metres round. They were hollow, and the metal was 75 millimetres thick. On top of each column was a bronze capital 2.2 metres high, and all round it was a grating decorated with pomegranates, all of which was also made of bronze. 
for you have helped me and protected me. : You have rescued me from death, : from dangerous lies and slander. 
so that we will be like other nations, with our own king to rule us and to lead us out to war and to fight our battles.” 
They were both circumcised on the same day, 
“Make a bronze basin with a bronze base. Place it between the Tent and the altar, and put water in it. 
As they were sailing, Jesus fell asleep. Suddenly a strong wind blew down on the lake, and the boat began to fill with water, so that they were all in great danger. 
Anything on which the dead bodies fall is unclean; a clay stove or oven shall be broken, 
“Do your best to go in through the narrow door; because many people will surely try to go in but will not be able.  
I am giving him Egypt in payment for his services, because his army was working for me. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken. 
In his suffering he became humble, turned to the LORD his God, and begged him for help. 
There will be seven years of great plenty in all the land of Egypt. 
If there were only one city, the distance to it might be too great, and the relative who is responsible for taking revenge for the killing might catch him and in his anger kill an innocent neighbour. After all, it was by accident that he killed his neighbour who was not his enemy. 
Haven't you got your own homes in which to eat and drink? Or would you rather despise the church of God and put to shame the people who are in need? What do you expect me to say to you about this? Shall I praise you? Of course I don't! 
Simon the Patriot, and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed Jesus. 
“The king of Syria will plan an expedition, using his whole army. Then, in order to destroy his enemy's kingdom, he will make an alliance with him and offer him his daughter in marriage; but his plan will not succeed. 
the LORD appeared to him again, as he had in Gibeon. 
I, the LORD Almighty, will beat them with my whip as I beat the people of Midian at the Rock of Oreb. I will punish Assyria as I punished Egypt. 
“Listen, then, and learn what the parable of the sower means.  
“When you hold back the rain because your people have sinned against you, and then when they repent and face this Temple, humbly praying to you, 
“Make certain you do not perform your religious duties in public so that people will see what you do. If you do these things publicly, you will not have any reward from your Father in heaven. 
David answered, “Who am I and what is my family that I should become the king's son-in-law?” 
Not a town will escape the destruction; : both valley and plain will be ruined. : I, the LORD, have spoken. 
and Reuben's sons: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi. 
There is no one to help us now! God has put us in their power. We are exhausted and dying of thirst. 
We went on from there, and because the winds were blowing against us, we sailed on the sheltered side of the island of Cyprus. 
Jesus saw him lying there, and he knew that the man had been ill for such a long time; so he asked him, “Do you want to get well?” 
Think through everything that Job says; : you will see that he talks like an evil man. 
Let's go ahead! General Holofernes, your great army will slaughter them easily.”When the noise of the crowd round the council had subsided, Holofernes spoke to Achior in front of the entire group, those from the Mediterranean coast, the Moabites, and the Ammonite mercenaries. 
There is nothing a good person can do : when everything falls apart.” 
Honour your father in everything you do and say, so that you may receive his blessing. 
No one in Egypt, rich or poor, important or unknown, can offer help. 
As long as you are a nation, never do anything to help these nations or to make them prosperous. 
Do good to humble people, but don't give anything to those who are not devout. Don't give them food, or they will use your kindness against you. Every good thing you do for such people will bring you twice as much trouble in return. 
Gracefulness and beauty please the eye, but not as much as new growth in the spring. 
At the same time God added his witness to theirs by performing all kinds of miracles and wonders and by distributing the gifts of the Holy Spirit according to his will. 
Then he told the priests to take the Covenant Box and go with it ahead of the people. They did as he said. 
But Paul shook the snake off into the fire without being harmed at all. 
Or could it be that the word of God came from you? Or are you the only ones to whom it came? 
I am writing to you, my children, because you know the Father. I am writing to you, fathers, because you know him who has existed from the beginning. I am writing to you, young people, because you are strong; the word of God lives in you, and you have defeated the Evil One. 
King David gave orders for all the foreigners living in the land of Israel to assemble, and he put them to work. Some of them prepared stone blocks for building the Temple. 
When I speak of peace, : they are for war.
When I heard all this, I sat down and wept. : For several days I mourned and did not eat. I prayed to God, 
The Horites used to live in Edom, but the descendants of Esau chased them out, destroyed their nation, and settled there themselves, just as the Israelites later chased their enemies out of the land that the LORD gave them.) 
May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
That evening they heard the LORD God walking in the garden, and they hid from him among the trees. 
The people of Egypt will be terrified of Judah every time they are reminded of the fate that the LORD Almighty has prepared for them. 
But he refused; instead, he had him thrown into jail until he should pay the debt.  
for man was not created from woman, but woman from man. 
My song is about loyalty and justice, : and I sing it to you, O LORD. 
The city of Zion is beautiful, but it will be destroyed; 
He will be dishonoured and beaten up; he will be permanently disgraced. 
In the same way, on the outside you appear good to everybody, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and sins. 
Now listen to me, you that say, “Today or tomorrow we will travel to a certain city, where we will stay a year and go into business and make a lot of money.” 
If the Spirit leads you, then you are not subject to the Law. 
I thank my God for you every time I think of you; 
“How does he dare to talk like this? This is blasphemy! God is the only one who can forgive sins!” 
If with all their hearts they will accept the religion of my people and will swear, ‘As the LORD lives’ — as they once taught my people to swear by Baal — then they will also be a part of my people and will prosper. 
Go into your houses, my people, and shut the door behind you. Hide yourselves for a little while until God's anger is over. 
As you advanced, I threw them into panic in order to drive out the two Amorite kings. Your swords and bows had nothing to do with it. 
Do not use the blood for food; instead pour it out on the ground like water. 
and carry it back home. Then you call your friends and neighbours together and say to them, ‘I am so happy I found my lost sheep. Let us celebrate!’  
Simeon took the child in his arms and gave thanks to God
I will make all the people of the world horrified at them because of what Hezekiah's son Manasseh did in Jerusalem when he was king of Judah.” 
Keep quiet until the right time to speak, and you will gain a reputation for good sense. 
The LORD says, “I will bring such disasters on mankind that everyone will grope about like someone blind. They have sinned against me, and now their blood will be poured out like water, and their dead bodies will lie rotting on the ground.” 
Foreigners bow before me; : when they hear me, they obey. 
Do not plan ways of harming one another. Do not give false testimony under oath. I hate lying, injustice, and violence.” 
All your wealth of merchandise, : All the sailors in your crew, : Your ship's carpenters and your merchants, : Every soldier on board the ship — : All, all were lost at sea : When your ship was wrecked. 
Those whom you have rescued : will reach Jerusalem with gladness, : singing and shouting for joy. : They will be happy for ever, : for ever free from sorrow and grief. 
then as soon as the sin becomes known, the community shall bring a young bull as a sin offering. They shall bring it to the Tent of the LORD's presence; 
They die while they are still young, : worn out by a life of disgrace. 
You know how I am insulted, : how I am disgraced and dishonoured; : you see all my enemies. 
God did not spare the Jews, who are like natural branches; do you think he will spare you? 
and said to Ephron, so that everyone could hear, “May I ask you, please, to listen. I will buy the whole field. Accept my payment, and I will bury my wife there.” 
and Moses removed Aaron's priestly robes and put them on Eleazar. There on the top of the mountain Aaron died, and Moses and Eleazar came back down. 
For married people I have a command which is not my own but the Lord's: a wife must not leave her husband; 
Listen! Wisdom is calling out. : Reason is making herself heard. 
Is it good to have riches in this life? Nothing can make you richer than Wisdom, who makes everything function. 
He was a friend of the governor of the island, Sergius Paulus, who was an intelligent man. The governor called Barnabas and Saul before him because he wanted to hear the word of God. 
The woman fled to the desert, to a place God had prepared for her, where she will be taken care of for 1,260 days. 
but they could not find a way to do it, because all the people kept listening to him, not wanting to miss a single word.
The last enemy to be defeated will be death. 
Even though you will not see any rain or wind, this stream bed will be filled with water, and you, your livestock, and your pack animals will have plenty to drink.’ ” 
Fear an angry king as you would a growling lion; making him angry is suicide. 
Even the prophets and the priests are so drunk that they stagger. They have drunk so much wine and liquor that they stumble in confusion. The prophets are too drunk to understand the visions that God sends, and the priests are too drunk to decide the cases that are brought to them. 
for it is he who is the “Yes” to all God's promises. This is why through Jesus Christ our “Amen” is said to the glory of God. 
That is why you let their leaders be killed — put to death on the same bed where they had raped the girl. You destroyed them all, slaves, princes, and rulers on their thrones. 
Isaiah replied, “The LORD will give you a sign to prove that he will keep his promise. Now, would you prefer the shadow on the stairway to go forward ten steps or go back ten steps?” 
He destroyed the pagan places of worship, broke the stone pillars, and cut down the images of the goddess Asherah. He also broke in pieces the bronze snake that Moses had made, which was called Nehushtan. Up to that time the people of Israel had burnt incense in its honour. 
Later on King Zedekiah sent for me, and there in the palace he asked me privately, “Is there any message from the LORD?” : “There is,” I answered, and added, “You will be handed over to the king of Babylonia.” 
(These records were compiled in the days of King Jotham of Judah and King Jeroboam II of Israel.) 
When this happened, all the other sick people on the island came and were healed. 
Tell the prophets that their wall is going to fall down. I will send a pouring rain. Hailstones will fall on it, and a strong wind will blow against it. 
Would any of you who are fathers give your son a snake when he asks for fish?  
I will bring burnt offerings to your house; : I will offer you what I promised. 
In the fourth year of the reign of King Ahab of Israel, Jehoshaphat son of Asa became king of Judah 
Who makes rain fall where no one lives? 
The woman saw how beautiful the tree was and how good its fruit would be to eat, and she thought how wonderful it would be to become wise. So she took some of the fruit and ate it. Then she gave some to her husband, and he also ate it. 
Then he said, “Your Majesty, have you announced that Adonijah would succeed you as king? 
The bronze objects that King Solomon had made for the Temple — the two columns, the carts, the large tank, and the twelve bulls that supported it — were too heavy to weigh. 
When a person with good judgement speaks, he wins friends. A stupid person, though, can shower compliments on everybody, and it won't help him a bit. 
Listen to my words, O LORD, : and hear my sighs. 
Naphtali: 1,000 leaders, together with 37,000 men armed with shields and spears; 
“Take it, Your Majesty,” Araunah said, “and offer to the LORD whatever you wish. Here are these oxen to burn as an offering on the altar; here are their yokes and the threshing boards to use as fuel.” 
The LORD's power and glory can be seen in the distance. Fire and smoke show his anger. He speaks, and his words burn like fire. 
Also dedicate the washbasin and its base in the same way. 
You steal, murder, commit adultery, tell lies under oath, offer sacrifices to Baal, and worship gods that you had not known before. 
It is to be mixed with oil and cooked on a griddle and then crumbled and presented as a grain offering, a smell pleasing to the LORD. 
Laban had gone to shear his sheep, and during his absence Rachel stole the household gods that belonged to her father. 
and every time I pray for you all, I pray with joy 
Give thanks to the LORD with harps, : sing to him with stringed instruments. 
Proud men are coming to attack me; : cruel men are trying to kill me — : men who do not care about God. 
When he invades all those countries, even Egypt will not be spared. 
They were potters in the service of the king and lived in the towns of Netaim and Gederah.  
who wants everyone to be saved and to come to know the truth. 
Offer these in addition to the regular burnt offering for the first day of the month with its grain offering, and the daily burnt offering with its grain offering and wine offering. These food offerings are a smell pleasing to the LORD. 
But I would not listen to Balaam, so he blessed you, and in this way I rescued you from Balak. 
The next Sabbath nearly everyone in the town came to hear the word of the Lord. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “denounce the rulers of Israel. Prophesy to them, and tell them what I, the Sovereign LORD, say to them: you are doomed, you shepherds of Israel! You take care of yourselves, but never tend the sheep. 
And so I was angry with those people and said, : ‘They are always disloyal : and refuse to obey my commands.’ 
The storerooms of the sky are thrown open, : and the clouds roll out like flying birds. 
By this time all Solomon's projects had been completed. From the laying of the foundation of the LORD's Temple to its completion, all the work had been successful. 
“Cut the fish open,” the angel instructed, “and take out its gall-bladder, heart, and liver. Keep these with you; they can be used for medicine, but throw away the guts.” 
“Archers, line up for battle against Babylon and surround it. Shoot all your arrows at Babylon, because it has sinned against me, the LORD. 
Idols have not always existed, nor will they exist for ever. 
Your merchandise was carried in fleets of the largest cargo ships. : “You were like a ship at sea : Loaded with heavy cargo. 
All Job's brothers and sisters and former friends came to visit him and feasted with him in his house. They expressed their sympathy and comforted him for all the troubles the LORD had brought on him. Each of them gave him some money and a gold ring. 
The LORD is angry with his people and has stretched out his hand to punish them. The mountains will shake, and the bodies of those who die will be left in the streets like rubbish. Yet even then the LORD's anger will not be ended, but his hand will still be stretched out to punish. 
Don't make fun of someone who has fallen on hard times and is dressed in rags. The Lord does wonderful things that human beings never notice. 
That same day Moses wrote down the song and taught it to the people of Israel. 
In the case of the priests the tenth is collected by men who die; but as for Melchizedek the tenth was collected by one who lives, as the scripture says. 
Then they asked him, “Where is your wife Sarah?” : “She is there in the tent,” he answered. 
You are only hurting yourself with your anger. : Will the earth be deserted because you are angry? : Will God move mountains to satisfy you? 
“This is strange,” he thought. “Why isn't the bush burning up? I will go closer and see.” 
The time has come to destroy Philistia, : to cut off from Tyre and Sidon : all the help that remains. : I, the LORD, will destroy the Philistines, : all who came from the shores of Crete. 
For forty years I was disgusted with those people. : I said, ‘How disloyal they are! : They refuse to obey my commands.’ 
He was taken to Moses, Aaron, and the whole community, 
He sent hail and lightning on their land : instead of rain; 
He must purify himself with the water for purification on the third day and on the seventh day, and then he will be clean. But if he does not purify himself on both the third and the seventh day, he will not be clean. 
The Sovereign LORD said, “And now, all you Israelites, please yourselves! Go on and serve your idols! But I warn you that after this you will have to obey me and stop dishonouring my holy name by offering gifts to your idols. 
When Saul saw the Philistine army, he was terrified, 
God is known in Judah; : his name is honoured in Israel. 
He also saw that Laban was no longer as friendly as he had been earlier. 
They also brought cattle and sheep to kill and eat. All this was an expression of the joy that was felt throughout the whole country.
If I suffer because of him, everyone who learns of it will be on guard against him. 
After a little while a man noticed Peter and said, “You are one of them, too!” : But Peter answered, “Man, I am not!” 
Is this the man who destroyed cities and turned the world into a desert? Is this the man who never freed his prisoners or let them go home?’ 
At that time the LORD began to reduce the size of Israel's territory. King Hazael of Syria conquered all the Israelite territory 
If I have been attracted to my neighbour's wife, : and waited, hidden, outside her door, 
If your daughter is determined to have her own way, keep a close watch on her. If you don't, she'll take advantage of any chance she gets. 
Be joyful in the LORD's presence, together with your children, your servants, and the Levites, foreigners, orphans, and widows who live in your towns. Do this at the one place of worship. 
The Lord hates evil in all its forms, and those who fear the Lord find nothing attractive in evil. 
Accept whatever happens to you. Even if you suffer humiliation, be patient. 
Then she had the donkey saddled, and ordered the servant, “Make the donkey go as fast as it can, and don't slow down, unless I tell you to.” 
May he be pleased with my song, : for my gladness comes from him. 
Nations will be drawn to your light, : And kings to the dawning of your new day. 
On that day her young men will be killed in the city streets, and all her soldiers destroyed. 
Turn to the LORD and pray to him, : now that he is near. 
Then God left him. 
Children born of a forbidden union suffer a miserable fate.
“This, then, is what it means, Your Majesty, and this is what the Supreme God has declared will happen to you. 
I promise that I will make this city and its inhabitants like Topheth. 
The end of anything is better than its beginning. : Patience is better than pride. 
Then Jesus called the crowd to him once more and said to them, “Listen to me, all of you, and understand.  
Remember Jesus Christ, who was raised from death, who was a descendant of David, as is taught in the Good News I preach. 
The man from whom the demons had gone out begged Jesus, “Let me go with you.” : But Jesus sent him away, saying, 
Some of it fell on rocky ground, where there was little soil. The seeds soon sprouted, because the soil wasn't deep.  
The message given to our ancestors by the angels was shown to be true, and all who did not follow it or obey it received the punishment they deserved. 
The time came for Elizabeth to have her baby, and she gave birth to a son. 
You will feel my anger when I turn it loose on you like a blazing fire. And I will hand you over to brutal men, experts at destruction. 
and be completely united with him. I no longer have a righteousness of my own, the kind that is gained by obeying the Law. I now have the righteousness that is given through faith in Christ, the righteousness that comes from God and is based on faith. 
For all those who reject the Son also reject the Father; those who accept the Son have the Father also. 
But Lot answered, “No, please don't make us do that, sir. 
After all, you must make careful plans before you fight a battle, and the more good advice you get, the more likely you are to win. 
The LORD says to the people of Israel and Judah
Maaseiah, the son of Baruch and grandson of Colhozeh. His other ancestors included Hazaiah, Adaiah, Joiarib, and Zechariah, descendants of Judah's son Shelah. 
God gave the world to the wicked. : He made all the judges blind. : And if God didn't do it, who did? 
The old people no longer sit at the city gate, : and the young people no longer make music. 
Your children must have sinned against God, : and so he punished them as they deserved. 
one month old or older; the total was 22,273. 
Beriah and Shema were heads of families that settled in the city of Aijalon and drove out the people who lived in the city of Gath. 
“Command the people of Israel to expel from the camp everyone with a dreaded skin disease or a bodily discharge and everyone who is unclean by contact with a corpse. 
David and his men went and killed 200 Philistines. He took their foreskins to the king and counted them all out to him, so that he might become his son-in-law. So Saul had to give his daughter Michal in marriage to David. 
The LORD thunders commands to his army. : The troops that obey him : are many and mighty. : How terrible is the day of the LORD! : Who will survive it? 
But Samson stayed in bed only until midnight. Then he got up and took hold of the city gate and pulled it up — doors, posts, lock, and all. He put them on his shoulders and carried them all the way to the top of the hill overlooking Hebron. 
If the people in that house welcome you, let your greeting of peace remain; but if they do not welcome you, then take back your greeting.  
Then he led them out and asked, “Sirs, what must I do to be saved?” 
When did any of the gods of all these countries ever save their country from our emperor? Then what makes you think the LORD can save Jerusalem?” 
He was so much in love with her that he became ill, because it seemed impossible for him to have her; as a virgin, she was kept from meeting men. 
Joshua and the leaders of Israel tore their clothes in grief, threw themselves to the ground before the LORD's Covenant Box, and lay there till evening, with dust on their heads to show their sorrow. 
the following regulations for the people of Israel to observe in the land that he was going to give them. 
and lived among the tombs. Nobody could keep him chained up any more; 
Tola had six sons: Uzzi, Rephaiah, Jeriel, Jahmai, Ibsam, and Shemuel. They were heads of families of the clan of Tola and were famous soldiers. At the time of King David their descendants numbered 22,600. 
It is like the dew on Mount Hermon, : falling on the hills of Zion. : That is where the LORD has promised his blessing — : life that never ends.
As surely as seeds sprout and grow, : The Sovereign LORD will save his people, : And all the nations will praise him.
This is a message about Babylon, which Isaiah son of Amoz received from God. 
LORD God, my saviour, I cry out all day, : and at night I come before you. 
Love justice, you rulers of the world. Set your minds sincerely on the Lord, and look for him with all honesty. 
Jesus answered, “Do you think you can make the guests at a wedding party go without food as long as the bridegroom is with them? Of course not!  
The other Levites were assigned all the other duties at the place of worship. 
The LORD spoke to me. 
So they asked Jesus to leave their territory. 
The people of powerful nations will praise you; : you will be feared in the cities of cruel nations. 
The descendants of Egypt were the people of Lydia, Anam, Lehab, Naphtuh, 
The LORD sent great swarms of flies into the king's palace and the houses of his officials. The whole land of Egypt was brought to ruin by the flies. 
All the people who had come back from captivity built shelters and lived in them. This was the first time it had been done since the days of Joshua son of Nun, and everybody was excited and happy. 
So give me the wisdom I need to rule your people with justice and to know the difference between good and evil. Otherwise, how would I ever be able to rule this great people of yours?” 
So we are bringing the gold ornaments, armlets, bracelets, rings, earrings, and necklaces that each of us has taken. We offer them to the LORD as a payment for our lives, so that he will protect us.” 
They will not have to gather firewood in the fields or cut down trees in the forest, because they will have the abandoned weapons to burn. They will loot and plunder those who looted and plundered them.” The Sovereign LORD has spoken. 
And Jesus said to them, “Neither will I tell you, then, by what right I do these things.” 
show her no mercy; cut off her hand. 
He protects those who are righteous; : he allows them to rule like kings : and lets them be honoured for ever. 
Carry her on your shoulder and don't be resentful of her bonds. 
God called you to this through the Good News we preached to you; he called you to possess your share of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
He is anxious to see you all and is very upset because you had heard that he was ill. 
Wisdom begins when you sincerely want to learn. To desire Wisdom is to love her; 
Don't tell lies at all. It never does any good. 
Elisha saw it and cried out to Elijah, “My father, my father! Mighty defender of Israel! You are gone!” And he never saw Elijah again. : In grief, Elisha tore his cloak in two. 
Do not lie to one another, for you have taken off the old self with its habits 
Besides, aren't the rivers Abana and Pharpar, back in Damascus, better than any river in Israel? I could have washed in them and been cured!” 
You will die and your corpses will be scattered across this wilderness. Because you have complained against me, none of you over twenty years of age will enter that land. 
He took off his clothes and danced and shouted in Samuel's presence, and lay naked all that day and all that night. (This is how the saying originated, “Has even Saul become a prophet?”)
The trumpets are to be blown by Aaron's sons, the priests. : “The following rule is to be observed for all time to come. 
“I tell you, my friends, do not be afraid of those who kill the body but cannot afterwards do anything worse.  
and wore wreaths of olive leaves on their heads. Judith took her place at the head of the procession to lead the women as they danced. All the men of Israel followed, wearing wreaths of flowers on their heads, carrying their weapons, and singing songs of praise.
Some Jews came from Antioch in Pisidia and from Iconium; they won the crowd over to their side, stoned Paul and dragged him out of the town, thinking that he was dead. 
God was with the boy as he grew up; he lived in the wilderness of Paran and became a skilful hunter. 
David obeyed the LORD's command and went, as Gad had told him to. 
Only Ahaziah's son Joash escaped. He was about to be killed with the others, but was rescued by his aunt Jehosheba, who was King Jehoram's daughter and Ahaziah's half-sister. She took him and his nurse into a bedroom in the Temple and hid him from Athaliah, so that he was not killed. 
So he asked the LORD, “Shall I go and attack the Philistines?” : “Yes,” the LORD answered. “Attack them and save Keilah.” 
and that anyone who does not bow down and worship it is to be thrown into a blazing furnace. 
“I have already told you,” he answered, “and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Maybe you, too, would like to be his disciples?” 
You must teach the people of Israel all the laws which I have given to you through Moses.” 
But God will give glory, honour, and peace to all who do what is good, to the Jews first and also to the Gentiles. 
The priest shall take the person and these offerings to the entrance of the Tent of the LORD's presence. 
I am more like an animal than a human being; : I do not have the sense a human being should have. 
David went on up the Mount of Olives weeping; he was barefoot and had his head covered as a sign of grief. All who followed him covered their heads and wept also. 
When the people of Israel heard this law read, they excluded all foreigners from the community. 
On that same day Abraham obeyed God and circumcised his son Ishmael and all the other males in his household, including the slaves born in his home and those he had bought. 
When King David heard what had happened, he was furious. 
You have made Israel your own people for ever, and you, LORD, have become their God. 
The LORD said, “Make Moab drunk, because it has rebelled against me. Moab will roll in its own vomit, and people will laugh. 
Remember how he put Abraham and Isaac to the test, and what happened to Jacob while he was working as a shepherd for his uncle Laban in Mesopotamia. 
For it is by God's grace that you have been saved through faith. It is not the result of your own efforts, but God's gift. 
But they have all turned away; : they are all equally bad. : Not one of them does what is right, : not a single one. 
you would be there to lead me, : you would be there to help me. 
Their land was free from foreigners; : there was no one to lead them away from God. 
He went to the Tent of the LORD's presence and said to Joab, “The king orders you to come out.” : “No,” Joab answered. “I will die here.” : Benaiah went back to the king and told him what Joab had said. 
Jesus noticed how wise his answer was, and so he told him, “You are not far from the Kingdom of God.” : After this nobody dared to ask Jesus any more questions. 
The LORD hates people who use dishonest weights and measures. 
“May you always think kindly of me,” she replied. Then she went away, ate some food, and was no longer sad. 
Someone who misleads someone else and then claims that he was only joking is like a mad person playing with a deadly weapon. 
Just as the weeds are gathered up and burnt in the fire, so the same thing will happen at the end of the age
If, when the priest examines him, the sore does not appear to be deeper than the surrounding skin, but there are still no healthy hairs in it, he shall isolate him for seven days. 
Job, you say you can't see God; : but wait patiently — your case is before him. 
May those who gloat over my suffering : be completely defeated and confused; : may those who claim to be better than I am : be covered with shame and disgrace. 
As for the promise we have made to each other, the LORD will make sure that we will keep it for ever.” 
He thought to himself, “Now that I have asked God to let me die, I should call my son Tobias and tell him about the money.” 
Keeping the Law is worth many offerings; it is a fellowship offering in itself. 
The king and the people were pleased with their plan, 
Of course we would not dare to classify ourselves or compare ourselves with those who rate themselves so highly. How stupid they are! They make up their own standards to measure themselves by, and they judge themselves by their own standards! 
The LORD said to me, “Do not ask me to help these people. 
Will no one listen to what I am saying? : I swear that every word is true. : Let Almighty God answer me. : If the charges my opponent brings against me : were written down so that I could see them, 
Jesus stood before the Roman governor, who questioned him. “Are you the king of the Jews?” he asked. : “So you say,” answered Jesus. 
“Go to the River Euphrates and hide the shorts in a hole in the rocks.” 
So they went to see the king and said, “King Darius, may Your Majesty live for ever! 
I myself created the whole universe! I am pleased with those who are humble and repentant, who fear me and obey me. 
Shaalbim, Aijalon, Ithlah, 
Those who go to Egypt for help are doomed! They are relying on Egypt's vast military strength — horses, chariots, and soldiers. But they do not rely on the LORD, the holy God of Israel, or ask him for help. 
When the king of Egypt let the people go, God did not take them by the road that goes up the coast to Philistia, although it was the shortest way. God thought, “I do not want the people to change their minds and return to Egypt when they see that they are going to have to fight.” 
“My son, take your children and go at once to Media. I believe that God's judgement which his prophet Nahum announced against Nineveh is about to take place. Everything that God's prophets told Israel about Nineveh and Assyria will happen. It will all come true, every word of it, when the right time comes. I am absolutely convinced that everything God has said is sure to come true. God does not break his promises. It will be safer for you in Media than in Assyria or Babylon. : “Our fellow-Jews who live in Israel will all be scattered and taken from that good land into exile. All Israel will become a wilderness; Samaria and Jerusalem will be abandoned cities. God's Temple will be burnt to the ground and will lie in complete ruin for a while. 
Love the LORD your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. 
Spend it on whatever you want — beef, lamb, wine, beer — and there, in the presence of the LORD your God, you and your families are to eat and enjoy yourselves. 
All the angels stood round the throne, the elders, and the four living creatures. Then they threw themselves face downwards in front of the throne and worshipped God, 
Then Achior, the leader of all the Ammonites, answered Holofernes, “Sir, if you will please be so kind as to listen to me, I will tell you the truth about these people who live in the mountains near your camp. I will not lie to you. 
David called him ‘Lord’; how, then, can the Messiah be David's descendant?” 
The sons of Jacob who went to Egypt with him, each with his family, were 
But when King Uzziah became strong, he grew arrogant, and that led to his downfall. He defied the LORD his God by going into the Temple to burn incense on the altar of incense. 
He spoke of trees and plants, from the Lebanon cedars to the hyssop that grows on walls; he talked about animals, birds, reptiles, and fish. 
They were about twelve men in all. 
Since Judah's assignment was larger than was needed, part of its territory was given to the tribe of Simeon. 
It isn't right! We go just as we came. We labour, trying to catch the wind, and what do we get? 
a grain offering of three kilogrammes of flour mixed with two litres of olive oil is to be presented, 
and burnt all their cities and camps. 
These are the sons that Leah had borne to Jacob in Mesopotamia, besides his daughter Dinah. In all, his descendants by Leah numbered 33. 
When Saul turned to leave Samuel, God gave Saul a new nature. And everything Samuel had told him happened that day. 
The LORD spoke to you when you were prosperous, : but you refused to listen. : That is what you've done all your life; : you never would obey the LORD. 
If you want to stay out of trouble, be careful what you say. 
A leech has two daughters, and both are named “Give me!” : There are four things that are never satisfied
That same year, in the fifth month of the fourth year that Zedekiah was king, Hananiah son of Azzur, a prophet from the town of Gibeon, spoke to me in the Temple. In the presence of the priests and of the people he told me 
to take a census of the Levite clan of Kohath by sub-clans and families, 
So Tobias and the angel started out towards Media, taking Tobias' dog along with them. They walked on until sunset, then camped by the River Tigris. 
A day is coming when the LORD Almighty will be like a glorious crown of flowers for his people who survive. 
The king answered, “Pray for me tomorrow.” : Moses said, “I will do as you ask, and then you will know that there is no other god like the LORD, our God. 
Make it a day of gloom and thick darkness; : cover it with clouds, and blot out the sun. 
Carry a stick as part of your equipment, so that when you have a bowel movement you can dig a hole and cover it up. 
When the king heard about what had happened, he tried to have Moses killed, but Moses fled and went to live in the land of Midian. : One day, when Moses was sitting by a well, seven daughters of Jethro, the priest of Midian, came to draw water and fill the troughs for their father's sheep and goats. 
So 600 men from the tribe of Dan left Zorah and Eshtaol, ready for battle. 
They gamble for my clothes : and divide them among themselves. 
They are torn from the tents where they lived secure, : and are dragged off to face King Death. 
Nineveh is destroyed, deserted, desolate! : Hearts melt with fear; : knees tremble, strength is gone; : faces grow pale. 
When the officials arrived, Judith said to them, “Please listen to me. You are the leaders of the people of Bethulia, but you were wrong to speak to the people as you did today. You should not have made a solemn promise before God that you would surrender the town to our enemies if the Lord did not come to our aid within a few days. 
Sincerity and truth are what you require; : fill my mind with your wisdom. 
King Toi of Hamath heard that David had defeated Hadadezer's entire army. 
His voice shook the earth at that time, but now he has promised, “I will once more shake not only the earth but heaven as well.” 
All the people of Israel were standing there. The king turned to face them and asked God's blessing on them. 
Yet they were very good to us; they never bothered us, and all the time we were with them in the fields, nothing that belonged to us was stolen. 
He said, “Hold high the banner of the LORD! The LORD will continue to fight against the Amalekites for ever!”
No one remembers what has happened in the past, and no one in days to come will remember what happens between now and then. 
And you too, my faithful partner, I want you to help these women; for they have worked hard with me to spread the gospel, together with Clement and all my other fellow-workers, whose names are in God's book of the living. 
From the clans of singers they chose the following men to play the brass cymbals: Heman son of Joel, his relative Asaph son of Berechiah, and Ethan son of Kushaiah, of the clan of Merari. To assist them they chose the following Levites to play the high-pitched harps: Zechariah, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah, and Benaiah. : To play the low-pitched harps they chose the following Levites: Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Azaziah, and the temple guards, Obed Edom and Jeiel. 
We were God's enemies, but he made us his friends through the death of his Son. Now that we are God's friends, how much more will we be saved by Christ's life! 
Six days later Jesus took with him Peter, James, and John, and led them up a high mountain, where they were alone. As they looked on, a change came over Jesus, 
“Sir,” the woman said, “give me that water! Then I will never be thirsty again, nor will I have to come here to draw water.” 
After spending two days there, Jesus left and went to Galilee. 
At the height of their success : all the weight of misery will crush them. 
Jesus was born in the town of Bethlehem in Judea, during the time when Herod was king. Soon afterwards, some men who studied the stars came from the east to Jerusalem 
When God promised Abraham and his descendants that the world would belong to him, he did so, not because Abraham obeyed the Law, but because he believed and was accepted as righteous by God. 
Beth Nimrah, and Beth Haran. 
They closed the doors of the Temple, let the lamps go out, and failed to burn incense or offer burnt offerings in the Temple of the God of Israel. 
they are doomed to die like sheep, : and Death will be their shepherd. : The righteous will triumph over them, : as their bodies quickly decay : in the world of the dead far from their homes. 
How can we sing a song to the LORD : in a foreign land? 
For it was by God's own decision that the Son has in himself the full nature of God. 
Like a storm, God destroys them in his anger. 
Give us permission to go to the Jordan and cut down some trees, so that we can build a place to live.” : “All right,” Elisha answered. 
and on the following day they threw part of the ship's equipment overboard. 
They brought us back some fruit they found there, and reported that the land which the LORD our God was giving us was very fertile. 
Get up and go; there is no safety here any more. Your sins have doomed this place to destruction. 
if it is to encourage others, we should do so. Whoever shares with others should do it generously; whoever has authority should work hard; whoever shows kindness to others should do it cheerfully. 
But he denied it. “I don't know… I don't understand what you are talking about,” he answered, and went out into the passage. Just then a cock crowed. 
but the worries about this life, the love for riches, and all other kinds of desires crowd in and choke the message, and they don't bear fruit.  
We know that God spoke to Moses; as for that fellow, however, we do not even know where he comes from!” 
The people of Egypt are put to shame; : they are conquered by the people of the north. : I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
He taught in the synagogues and was praised by everyone. 
There is really no need for me to write to you about the help being sent to God's people in Judea. 
When Paul saw that some of the group were Sadducees and the others were Pharisees, he called out in the Council, “Fellow-Israelites! I am a Pharisee, the son of Pharisees. I am on trial here because of the hope I have that the dead will rise to life!” 
Though I am innocent, all I can do : is beg for mercy from God my judge. 
When that day comes, well-defended cities will be deserted and left in ruins like the cities that the Hivites and the Amorites abandoned as they fled from the people of Israel. 
Judah will hold the royal sceptre, : And his descendants will always rule. : Nations will bring him tribute : And bow in obedience before him. 
they grope in the dark and stagger like drunkards.
“Set aside a tithe — a tenth of all that your fields produce each year. 
Find a wife and you find a good thing; it shows that the LORD is good to you. 
I was the only one in my family who regularly went to Jerusalem to celebrate the religious festivals, as the Law of Moses commands everyone to do. I would hurry off to Jerusalem with the first part of my harvest, the firstborn of my animals, a tenth of my cattle, and the freshly clipped wool from my sheep. Then I would stand before the altar in the Temple, and give these offerings to the priests, the descendants of Aaron. 
Don't be surprised when you see that the government oppresses the poor and denies them justice and their rights. Every official is protected by the one over him, and both are protected by still higher officials. 
And as for you, Capernaum! Did you want to lift yourself up to heaven? You will be thrown down to hell!” 
But the LORD himself says that you refused to listen to him. Instead, you made him angry with your idols and have brought his punishment on yourselves. 
But in the beginning, at the time of creation, ‘God made them male and female,’ as the scripture says.  
Then God remembered Rachel; he answered her prayer and made it possible for her to have children. 
Having been sent by the Holy Spirit, Barnabas and Saul went to Seleucia and sailed from there to the island of Cyprus. 
Herod himself had ordered John's arrest, and he had him chained and put in prison. Herod did this because of Herodias, whom he had married, even though she was the wife of his brother Philip. 
For God has made all people prisoners of disobedience, so that he might show mercy to them all. 
Then you will answer, ‘We ate and drank with you; you taught in our town!’  
And any tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown in the fire.  
A time is coming when the people of Israel who have survived will no longer rely on the nation that almost destroyed them. They will truly put their trust in the LORD, Israel's holy God. 
And now we are here, : standing inside the gates of Jerusalem! 
Barzillai was a very old man, eighty years old. He was very rich and had supplied the king with food while he was staying at Mahanaim. 
When the Israelites who lived in the Valley of Jezreel heard that the army had fled and that Saul and his sons had died, they abandoned their towns and ran off. Then the Philistines came and occupied them. 
Listen! As for that group that belongs to Satan, those liars who claim that they are Jews but are not, I will make them come and bow down at your feet. They will all know that I love you.  
But destruction will catch them before they know it; : they will be caught in their own trap : and fall to their destruction! 
the LORD said to us, 
Benhadad received Ahab's answer as he and his allies, the other rulers, were drinking in their tents. He ordered his men to get ready to attack the city, so they moved into position. 
A man from the tribe of Benjamin ran all the way from the battlefield to Shiloh and arrived there the same day. To show his grief, he had torn his clothes and put earth on his head. 
So David and his men — about 600 in all — left Keilah at once and kept on the move. When Saul heard that David had escaped from Keilah, he gave up his plan. 
He told his servant Gehazi to go and call the woman. When she came, 
King Hezekiah and the people were happy, because God had helped them to do all this so quickly.
I gave you a nose-ring and earrings and a beautiful crown to wear. 
People passing by shook their heads and hurled insults at Jesus: “Aha! You were going to tear down the Temple and build it up again in three days! 
About a week after he had said these things, Jesus took Peter, John, and James with him and went up a hill to pray. 
We learnt our wisdom from grey-haired people — : those born before your father. 
He also took his men and their families, and they settled in the towns round Hebron. 
“Even though you people of Israel are unfaithful to me, may Judah not be guilty of the same thing. Don't worship at Gilgal or Bethaven, or make promises there in the name of the living LORD. 
The people said, : “Tell them to hurry and sing a funeral song for us, : until our eyes fill with tears, : and our eyelids are wet from crying.” 
So 3,000 men of Judah went to the cave in the cliff at Etam and said to Samson, “Don't you know that the Philistines are our rulers? What have you done to us?” : He answered, “I did to them just what they did to me.” 
If you belonged to the world, then the world would love you as its own. But I chose you from this world, and you do not belong to it; that is why the world hates you.  
I am against those prophets who take each other's words and proclaim them as my message. 
What strength have I got to keep on living? : Why go on living when I have no hope? 
Like a lion coming from its hiding place, : a destroyer of nations has set out. : He is coming to destroy Judah. : The cities of Judah will be left in ruins, : and no one will live in them. 
Solomon was wiser than the wise men of the East or the wise men of Egypt. 
Raphael said, “Tobias, you know the condition your father was in when we left him. 
The people asked him, “What are we to do, then?” 
We honour God for what he conceals; we honour kings for what they explain. 
If a man marries his brother's wife, they will die childless. He has done a ritually unclean thing and has disgraced his brother. 
It is the same with the blacksmith at his anvil, planning what he will make from a piece of iron. The heat from the fire sears his skin as he sweats away at the forge. The clanging of the hammer deafens him  as he carefully watches the object he is working take shape. He takes great pains to complete his task, and will work far into the night to bring it to perfection. 
“Men of Moab, why do you claim to be heroes, : brave soldiers tested in war? 
Some of the Pharisees said, “The man who did this cannot be from God, for he does not obey the Sabbath law.” : Others, however, said, “How could a man who is a sinner perform such miracles as these?” And there was a division among them. 
At once six men came from the outer north gate of the Temple, each one carrying a weapon. With them was a man dressed in linen clothes, carrying something to write with. They all came and stood by the bronze altar. 
I brought you out of Egypt, led you through the desert for forty years, and gave you the land of the Amorites to be your own. 
“Or, if people should tell you, ‘Look, he is out in the desert!’ — don't go there; or if they say, ‘Look, he is hiding here!’ — don't believe it.  
Trust in the LORD. : Have faith, do not despair. : Trust in the LORD.
“I will keep my promise to you and to your descendants in future generations as an everlasting covenant. I will be your God and the God of your descendants. 
I will live among my people Israel in this Temple that you are building, and I will never abandon them.” 
The LORD provides the sun for light by day, : the moon and the stars to shine at night. : He stirs up the sea and makes it roar; : his name is the LORD Almighty. 
He also had two sons by Hushim: Abitub and Elpaal. 
So then, as surely as I, the Sovereign LORD, am the living God, I will pay you back for your anger, your jealousy, and your hatred towards my people. They will know that I am punishing you for what you did to them. 
So they went into Micah's house, where the young Levite lived, and asked the Levite how he was getting on. 
At that time the army of the king of Babylonia was attacking Jerusalem, and I was locked up in the courtyard of the royal palace. 
Do not treat them harshly, but obey your God. 
He placed these branches in front of the flocks at their drinking troughs. He put them there, because the animals mated when they came to drink. 
Meremoth, the son of Uriah and grandson of Hakkoz, built the next section. : Meshullam, the son of Berechiah and grandson of Meshezabel, built the next section. : Zadok son of Baana built the next section. 
I beg you not to force me to be harsh when I come; for I am sure I can deal harshly with those who say that we act from worldly motives. 
I asked him, “Sir, what do these horses mean?” : He answered, “I will show you what they mean. 
This is as good as money saved. You will have your reward in a time of trouble. 
David took care of them with unselfish devotion : and led them with skill.
They have never been known to tell lies; they are faultless. 
dip his finger in it, and sprinkle it in front of the curtain seven times. 
The LORD became so angry with the people of Jerusalem and Judah that he banished them from his sight.
But I, the LORD your God who led you out of Egypt, I will make you live in tents again, as you did when I came to you in the desert. 
and he would not let anyone carry anything through the temple courtyards. 
The slave-drivers and the Israelite foremen went out and said to the Israelites, “The king has said that he will not supply you with any more straw. 
The mountains skipped like goats; : the hills jumped about like lambs. 
Then Joshua and his army turned back to Debir and attacked it. 
Boil the meat and eat it at the one place of worship; and the next morning return home. 
Yes, that's all the joy wicked people have; : others now come and take their places. 
No one should look down on him, but you must help him to continue his trip in peace, so that he will come back to me; for I am expecting him back with the brothers and sisters. 
The people said to Joshua, “No! We will serve the LORD.” 
All the people who are determined to go and live in Egypt will die either in war or of starvation or disease. Not one of them will survive, not one will escape the disaster that I am going to bring on them.’ 
and Jehu said to his aide Bidkar, “Get his body and throw it in the field that belonged to Naboth. Remember that when you and I were riding together behind King Joram's father Ahab, the LORD spoke these words against Ahab
Jehoshaphat led his troops back to Jerusalem in triumph, because the LORD had defeated their enemies. 
All the people tried to touch him, for power was going out from him and healing them all. 
But now I beg you, take heart! Not one of you will lose your life; only the ship will be lost. 
The Lord forgave David's sin and established his power for ever. He made a covenant with him that he and his descendants would reign in splendour over Israel. 
But if her father refuses to let him marry her, he must pay the father a sum of money equal to the bride price for a virgin. 
All your enemies mock you and glare at you with hate. : They curl their lips and sneer, “We have destroyed it! : This is the day we have waited for!” 
In that case, the leaders of his own town are to send for him and hand him over to the relative responsible for taking revenge for the murder, so that he may be put to death. 
Other members of “The Thirty” included: : Asahel, Joab's brother : Elhanan son of Dodo from Bethlehem : Shammah and Elika from Harod : Helez from Pelet : Ira son of Ikkesh from Tekoa : Abiezer from Anathoth : Mebunnai from Hushah : Zalmon from Ahoh : Maharai from Netophah : Heleb son of Baanah from Netophah : Ittai son of Ribai from Gibeah in Benjamin : Benaiah from Pirathon : Hiddai from the valleys near Gaash : Abialbon from Arabah : Azmaveth from Bahurim : Eliahba from Shaalbon : The sons of Jashen : Jonathan : Shammah from Harar : Ahiam son of Sharar from Harar : Eliphelet son of Ahasbai from Maacah : Eliam son of Ahithophel from Gilo : Hezro from Carmel : Paarai from Arab : Igal son of Nathan from Zobah : Bani from Gad : Zelek from Ammon : Naharai from Beeroth, Joab's armour bearer : Ira and Gareb from Jattir : Uriah the Hittite : There were 37 famous soldiers in all.
“Since when,” Amaziah interrupted, “have we made you adviser to the king? Stop talking, or I'll have you killed!” : The prophet stopped, but not before saying, “Now I know that God has decided to destroy you because you have done all this and have ignored my advice.” 
“My Father has given me all things. No one knows who the Son is except the Father, and no one knows who the Father is except the Son and those to whom the Son chooses to reveal him.” 
Are they Christ's servants? I sound like a madman — but I am a better servant than they are! I have worked much harder, I have been in prison more times, I have been whipped much more, and I have been near death more often. 
The fourteen sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, Romamti Ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Mahazioth. 
Don't be angry with someone for every little thing he does wrong. Don't do anything out of injured pride. 
LORD, may all their curses come true if I have not served you well, if I have not pleaded with you on behalf of my enemies when they were in trouble and distress. 
Every morning and every evening they offer him incense and animal sacrifices burnt whole. They present the offerings of bread on a table that is ritually clean, and every evening they light the lamps on the gold lampstand. We do what the LORD has commanded, but you have abandoned him. 
Because Joab disapproved of the king's command, he did not take any census of the tribes of Levi and Benjamin. 
Surely you know that you are God's temple and that God's Spirit lives in you! 
The LORD has abandoned his people like a lion that leaves its cave. The horrors of war and the LORD's fierce anger have turned the country into a desert.
The illusions produced by their magic tricks were put to shame, and all the wisdom they had boasted of came to nothing. 
Then the Levite clan of Kohath would start out, carrying the sacred objects. By the time they arrived at the next camp, the Tent had been set up again. 
When they reached the border of Mysia, they tried to go into the province of Bithynia, but the Spirit of Jesus did not allow them. 
I also will clap my hands, and my anger will be over. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
Say to him, “Save us, O God our Saviour; : gather us together; rescue us from the nations, : so that we may be thankful : and praise your holy name.” 
I will speak out to encourage Jerusalem; : I will not be silent until she is saved, : And her victory shines like a torch in the night. 
He knows all that has ever been and all that ever will be; : he uncovers the deepest of mysteries. 
He said, “I will kill all the archers who have made Elam so powerful. 
While I was staring at the horns, I saw a little horn coming up among the others. It tore out three of the horns that were already there. This horn had human eyes and a mouth that was boasting proudly. 
While they were there, they recognized the accent of the young Levite, so they went up to him and asked, “What are you doing here? Who brought you here?” 
You are pure to those who are pure, : but hostile to those who are wicked. 
King David, Solomon's father, had already prepared a place for the Temple. It was in Jerusalem, on Mount Moriah, where the LORD appeared to David, the place which Araunah the Jebusite had used as a threshing place. King Solomon began the construction 
I will make a covenant with them that guarantees their security. I will get rid of all the dangerous animals in the land, so that my sheep can live safely in the fields and sleep in the forests. 
(This territory is also known as the land of the Rephaim, the name of the people who used to live there; the Ammonites called them Zamzummim. 
Let them get their father and their families and come back here. I will give them the best land in Egypt, and they will have more than enough to live on. 
where there was a man who had a paralysed hand. Some people were there who wanted to accuse Jesus of doing wrong, so they asked him, “Is it against our Law to heal on the Sabbath?” 
Do not listen to your prophets or to anyone who claims he can predict the future, either by dreams or by calling up the spirits of the dead or by magic. They all tell you not to submit to the king of Babylonia. 
I will fight against you with all my might, my anger, my wrath, and my fury. 
Then Jesus told them this parable: “There was once a rich man who had land which bore good crops.  
In the same way that Jonah spent three days and nights in the big fish, so will the Son of Man spend three days and nights in the depths of the earth.  
“Father! You have given them to me, and I want them to be with me where I am, so that they may see my glory, the glory you gave me; for you loved me before the world was made.  
The men from Dan said, “You had better not say anything else unless you want these men to get angry and attack you. Then you and your whole family would die.” 
“The command that I am giving you today is not too difficult or beyond your reach. 
but if your eyes are no good, your body will be in darkness. So if the light in you is darkness, how terribly dark it will be! 
The LORD will guard you; : he is by your side to protect you. 
Remember that this man Boaz, whose women you have been working with, is our relative. Now listen. This evening he will be threshing the barley. 
He left Bethlehem to find somewhere else to live. While he was travelling, he came to Micah's house in the hill country of Ephraim. 
They have committed adultery and murder — adultery with idols and murder of the children they bore me. They sacrificed my children to their idols. 
You are a righteous God : and judge our thoughts and desires. : Stop the wickedness of evildoers : and reward those who are good. 
When Uriah arrived, David asked him if Joab and the troops were well, and how the fighting was going. 
that the scripture speaks of: : “Look, I place in Zion a stone : that will make people stumble, : a rock that will make them fall. : But whoever believes in him will not be disappointed.”
The righteous are protected from trouble; it comes to the wicked instead. 
They said to King Nebuchadnezzar, “May Your Majesty live for ever! 
But I tell the truth, and that is why you do not believe me.  
what are human beings, that you think of them; : mere mortals, that you care for them? 
But they would not obey; they were stubborn like their ancestors, who had not trusted in the LORD their God. 
They will be alive with new growth, : and beautiful like olive trees. : They will be fragrant : like the cedars of Lebanon. 
This building was fifty metres long and 25 metres wide. 
Praise the LORD, you Levites; : praise him, all you that worship him! 
Joseph understood what they said, but they did not know it, because they had been speaking to him through an interpreter. 
“Stop fighting,” he says, “and know that I am God, : supreme among the nations, : supreme over the world.” 
You punished your people, LORD, : and in anguish they prayed to you. 
Forgive us our sins, :   for we forgive everyone who does us wrong. :   And do not bring us to hard testing.’ ” 
You have gone far enough. Stop being unjust. : Don't condemn me. I'm in the right. 
Go back, Moses, and listen to everything that the LORD our God says. Then return and tell us what he said to you. We will listen and obey.’ 
and when the family of Jacob had eaten all the corn which had been brought from Egypt, Jacob said to his sons, “Go back and buy a little food for us.” 
“Don't worry, Sarah. I'm sure the Lord of heaven will make you happy this time and not sad. So cheer up, my dear.” Then Edna left the room.
A giant named Ishbibenob, who was carrying a bronze spear that weighed about 3.5 kilogrammes and who was wearing a new sword, thought he could kill David. 
When Jesus came down from the hill, large crowds followed him. 
from the clan of Gershon, Joel, in charge of 130; 
just as Jacob's sons were coming in from the fields. When they heard about it, they were shocked and furious that Shechem had done such a thing and had insulted the people of Israel by raping Jacob's daughter. 
May their path be dark and slippery : while the angel of the LORD strikes them down! 
But a go-between is not needed when only one person is involved; and God is one. 
“The ten horns you saw are ten kings who have not yet begun to rule, but who will be given authority to rule as kings for one hour with the beast. 
The buds, the branches, and the lampstand were a single piece of pure hammered gold. 
Your gold and silver are covered with rust, and this rust will be a witness against you and will eat up your flesh like fire. You have piled up riches in these last days. 
“They will stir up a crowd to stone you, and they will cut you to pieces with their swords. 
As a father is kind to his children, : so the LORD is kind to those who honour him. 
These men were registered according to their assignments for going to the Temple and performing the duties established by their ancestor Aaron in obedience to the commands of the LORD God of Israel. 
and Moses said to Aaron, “Take your firepan, put live coals from the altar in it, and put some incense on the coals. Then hurry with it to the people and perform the ritual of purification for them. Hurry! The LORD's anger has already broken out and an epidemic has already begun.” 
From the most distant parts of the world we will hear songs in praise of Israel, the righteous nation. : But there is no hope for me! I am wasting away! Traitors continue to betray, and their treachery grows worse and worse. 
Teach me to live according to your truth, : for you are my God, who saves me. : I always trust in you. 
They are all treacherous and disloyal. Their hatred smoulders like the fire in an oven, which is not stirred by the baker until the dough is ready to bake. 
Elisha called Gehazi and told him to call the boy's mother. When she came in, he said to her, “Here's your son.” 
My dear friends, do not believe all who claim to have the Spirit, but test them to find out if the spirit they have comes from God. For many false prophets have gone out everywhere. 
We will not keep them from our children; : we will tell the next generation : about the LORD's power and his great deeds : and the wonderful things he has done. 
It was to be proclaimed as law and made known to everyone in every province, so that the Jews would be ready to take revenge on their enemies when that day came. 
Bukki, Uzzi, Zerahiah, 
“I believe, Lord!” the man said, and knelt down before Jesus. 
However, the fields of the city, as well as its towns, had already been given to Caleb son of Jephunneh as his possession. 
Virtue provides an example for people to follow; when it is not there, they miss it. It has always been the finest prize a person can win, and it will always be so. It is the noblest of all the good qualities a person can have. 
Boaz said to her, “Take off your cloak and spread it out here.” She did, and he poured out nearly twenty kilogrammes of barley and helped her to lift it on her shoulder. Then she returned to the town with it. 
“All the people of Israel, then, are to know for sure that this Jesus, whom you crucified, is the one that God has made Lord and Messiah!” 
The king ordered Ashpenaz, his chief official, to select from among the Israelite exiles some young men of the royal family and of the noble families. 
disaster, like a powerful king, : is waiting to attack them. 
Jehoash died and was buried in the royal tombs in Samaria, and his son Jeroboam II succeeded him as king. 
Again they shouted, “Praise God! The smoke from the flames that consume the great city goes up for ever and ever!” 
He remembered that they were only mortal beings, : like a wind that blows by and is gone. 
The fortified city lies in ruins. It is deserted like an empty wilderness. It has become a pasture for cattle, where they can rest and graze. 
However, if the people from Macedonia should come with me and find out that you are not ready, how ashamed we would be — not to speak of your shame — for feeling so sure of you! 
Do not let those people live in your country; if you do, they will make you sin against me. If you worship their gods, it will be a fatal trap for you.”
You place our sins before you, : our secret sins where you can see them. 
Sopater son of Pyrrhus, from Berea, went with him; so did Aristarchus and Secundus, from Thessalonica; Gaius, from Derbe; Tychicus and Trophimus, from the province of Asia; and Timothy. 
Moses and his helper Joshua got ready, and Moses began to go up the holy mountain. 
So I went there and saw the potter working at his wheel. 
When his enemies were threatening him from every side, he prayed to the mighty Lord Most High, and his prayer was answered with a hailstorm of devastating force. 
Day and night you punished me, LORD; : my strength was completely drained, : as moisture is dried up by the summer heat. 
Solomon moved his wife, the daughter of the king of Egypt, from David's City to a house he built for her. He said, “She must not live in the palace of King David of Israel, because any place where the Covenant Box has been is holy.” 
I declare in the heat of my anger that on that day there will be a severe earthquake in the land of Israel. 
They rush against the city; : they run over the walls; : they climb up the houses : and go in through the windows like thieves. 
burnt incense in the Valley of Hinnom, and even sacrificed his own sons as burnt offerings to idols, imitating the disgusting practice of the people whom the LORD had driven out of the land as the Israelites advanced. 
I have destroyed Samaria and all its idols, and I will do the same to Jerusalem and the images that are worshipped there.” 
and said to her, “No! We will go with you to your people.” 
But if any of the blood is brought into the Tent and used in the ritual to take away sin, the animal must not be eaten; it must be burnt.
But they continued to sin against God, : and in the desert they rebelled against the Most High. 
Now, descendants of Jacob, let us walk in the light which the LORD gives us! 
Peter reached over and helped her get up. Then he called all the believers, including the widows, and presented her alive to them. 
Every fish and bird, every animal large and small, and every human being on the face of the earth will tremble for fear of me. Mountains will fall, cliffs will crumble, and every wall will collapse. 
Long life is the reward of the righteous; grey hair is a glorious crown. 
He built an altar there and named the place after the God of Bethel, because God had revealed himself to him there when he was running away from his brother. 
They exchange the truth about God for a lie; they worship and serve what God has created instead of the Creator himself, who is to be praised for ever! Amen. 
But be sure of this: if you kill me, you and the people of this city will be guilty of killing an innocent man, because it is the LORD who sent me to give you this warning.” 
Because those enemies decreed that the babies of your people should be killed, you stirred up the sources of their ever-flowing river and made it foul with blood. : In the desert you let your people go thirsty, to give them a taste of how you had punished their enemies. And then, when they least expected it, you gave them plenty of water. 
Jesus went to Peter's home, and there he saw Peter's mother-in-law sick in bed with a fever. 
People who set traps for others get caught themselves. People who start landslides get crushed. 
When Asa heard the prophecy that Azariah son of Oded had spoken, he was encouraged. He did away with all the idols in the land of Judah and Benjamin and all the idols in the cities he had captured in the hill country of Ephraim. He also repaired the altar of the LORD that stood in the temple courtyard. 
“When your people sin against you — and there is no one who does not sin — and in your anger you let their enemies defeat them and take them as prisoners to some other land, even if that land is far away, 
Praise the LORD! : Sing a new song to the LORD; : praise him in the assembly of his faithful people! 
So if one group is fighting another in Satan's kingdom, this means that it is already divided into groups and will soon fall apart!  
“I will go and make him well,” Jesus said. 
The LORD will strike you with infectious diseases, with swelling and fever; he will send drought and scorching winds to destroy your crops. These disasters will be with you until you die. 
When you have presented the best part, you may keep the rest, just as the farmer keeps what is left after he makes his offering. 
At once they left their nets and went with him. 
You have torn down the walls of his city : and left his forts in ruins. 
Shallum, the son of Kore and grandson of Ebiasaph, together with his fellow-members of the clan of Korah, was responsible for guarding the entrance to the Tent of the LORD's presence, just as their ancestors had been when they were in charge of the LORD's camp. 
He stops wars all over the world; : he breaks bows, destroys spears, : and sets shields on fire. 
They saw the splendour of his majesty : and heard the glory of his voice. 
Jesus said, “Be on guard; don't be deceived. Many men, claiming to speak for me, will come and say, ‘I am he!’ and, ‘The time has come!’ But don't follow them.  
In every city of Israel King Josiah tore down all the pagan places of worship which had been built by the kings of Israel, who thereby aroused the LORD's anger. He did to all those altars what he had done in Bethel. 
He asked me, “Amos, what do you see?” : “A plumb line,” I answered. : Then he said, “I am using it to show that my people are like a wall that is out of line. I will not change my mind again about punishing them. 
I will make a distinction between the animals of the Israelites and those of the Egyptians, and no animal that belongs to the Israelites will die. 
it went on rising until it was about seven metres above the tops of the mountains. 
Hezekiah welcomed the messengers and showed them his wealth — his silver and gold, his spices and perfumes, and all his military equipment. There was nothing in his storerooms or anywhere in his kingdom that he did not show them. 
Peter followed him out of the prison, not knowing, however, if what the angel was doing was real; he thought he was seeing a vision. 
How certain your promise is! : How I love it! 
Return, you exiles who now have hope; : return to your place of safety. : I tell you now, I will repay you twice over : with blessing for all you have suffered. 
God did this so that the righteous demands of the Law might be fully satisfied in us who live according to the Spirit, and not according to human nature. 
When you cry for help, let those idols of yours save you! A puff of wind will carry them off! But those who trust in me will live in the land and will worship me in my Temple.” 
The LORD said to Moses, “Tell Aaron to strike the ground with his stick, and all over the land of Egypt the dust will change into gnats.” 
Your officials are like a swarm of locusts that stay in the walls on a cold day. But when the sun comes out, they fly away, and no one knows where they have gone! 
“In future generations your descendants and foreigners from distant lands will see the disasters and sufferings that the LORD has brought on your land. 
You marched across the earth in anger; : in fury you trampled the nations. 
Anathoth — 128 
Your sails were made of linen, : Embroidered linen from Egypt, : Easily recognized from afar. : Your awnings were made of finest cloth, : Of purple from the island of Cyprus. 
he shall order it to be washed and put away for another seven days. 
Then he said, “I will give you so many descendants that no one will be able to count them. 
I will give you the land which I gave to Abraham and to Isaac, and I will also give it to your descendants after you.” 
And he said, “It is done! I am the first and the last, the beginning and the end. To anyone who is thirsty I will give the right to drink from the spring of the water of life without paying for it. 
It does a fool no good to spend money on an education, because he has no common sense. 
Moses then went down to the people and told them what the LORD had said.
Bow down before the Holy One when he appears; : tremble before him, all the earth! 
He will turn all these curses against your enemies, who hated you and oppressed you, 
Christ has been divided into groups! Was it Paul who died on the cross for you? Were you baptized as Paul's disciples? 
He has his winnowing shovel with him, to thresh out all the grain and gather the wheat into his barn; but he will burn the chaff in a fire that never goes out.” 
The Pharisees heard the crowd whispering these things about Jesus, so they and the chief priests sent some guards to arrest him. 
Do not abandon wisdom, and she will protect you; love her, and she will keep you safe. 
Then one of David's descendants will be king, and he will rule the people with faithfulness and love. He will be quick to do what is right, and he will see that justice is done.) 
Then Eleazar is to take some of its blood and with his finger sprinkle it seven times in the direction of the Tent. 
It would be a disgrace to let slip an opportunity to make love to a woman like that. If I don't try to seduce her, she will laugh at me.” 
When people see me, they laugh at me; : they shake their heads in scorn. 
Then Samuel said to the people of Israel, “I have done what you asked me to do. I have given you a king to rule you, 
“ ‘God's curse on anyone who makes an idol of stone, wood, or metal and secretly worships it; the LORD hates idolatry.’ : “And all the people will answer, ‘Amen!’ 
“Mortal man,” he said, “denounce Gog, chief ruler of the nations of Meshech and Tubal in the land of Magog. Denounce him, 
Keep the Sabbath, and honour the place where I am worshipped. I am the LORD. 
Abraham said, “I promise.” 
God did not call us to live in immorality, but in holiness. 
Fumes and smoke appear before the flames do; insults come before violence. 
LORD Almighty, you are ruler of all the earth; : you are much greater than all the gods. 
He will change our weak mortal bodies and make them like his own glorious body, using that power by which he is able to bring all things under his rule.
Surely you have read this scripture: :   ‘The stone which the builders rejected as worthless :   turned out to be the most important of all. 
We mourn for the dead because they have no access to light. We ought to mourn for fools, because they have no access to intelligence. In fact, we should go into deeper mourning for fools, because the life they lead is worse than death. The dead are at least at rest. 
he showed contempt for their oppressors : and made them wander in trackless deserts. 
The commander said, “Don't tell anyone that you have reported this to me.” And he sent the young man away. 
which is based on the hope for eternal life. God, who does not lie, promised us this life before the beginning of time, 
When the Israelites saw that Abimelech was dead, they all went home. 
Throw away your gold; : dump your finest gold in the dry stream bed. 
Benjamin (Saul's own tribe): 3,000 men 
There will be suffering and pain for all those who do what is evil, for the Jews first and also for the Gentiles. 
When she went from the harem to the palace, she could wear whatever she wanted. 
When one of the servant women saw him sitting there at the fire, she looked straight at him and said, “This man too was with Jesus!” 
All the citizens of the city agreed with what Hamor and Shechem proposed, and all the males were circumcised. 
Even today you offer the same gifts and defile yourselves with the same idols by sacrificing your children to them in the fire. And then you Israelites still come to ask what my will is! As surely as I, the Sovereign LORD, am the living God, I will not let you ask me anything. 
Chariots dash wildly through the streets, : rushing to and fro through the city squares. : They flash like torches : and dart about like lightning. 
For if a man does not know how to manage his own family, how can he take care of the church of God? 
A person may say something carelessly and not really mean it. Everyone has sinned in this way at one time or another. 
I will attack you like a bear that has lost her cubs, and I will tear you open. Like a lion I will devour you on the spot, and will tear you to pieces like a wild animal. 
Again Jesus began to teach beside Lake Galilee. The crowd that gathered round him was so large that he got into a boat and sat in it. The boat was out in the water, and the crowd stood on the shore at the water's edge. 
Before the king of Egypt attacked Gaza, the LORD spoke to me about Philistia. 
He measured the length of the building to the west, including its corridors on both sides, and it was also fifty metres. : The entrance room of the Temple, the Holy Place, and the Most Holy Place 
so she ran at once and said to him, “Look! The man who came to me the other day has appeared to me again.” 
Levi: 4,600 men; 
Naphtali had four sons: Jahziel, Guni, Jezer, and Shallum. (They were descendants of Bilhah.) 
“How terrible for you, teachers of the Law and Pharisees! You hypocrites! You lock the door to the Kingdom of heaven in people's faces, and you yourselves don't go in, nor do you allow in those who are trying to enter!   
If there are many years, the price shall be higher, but if there are only a few years, the price shall be lower, because what is being sold is the number of crops the land can produce. 
Give to others, and God will give to you. Indeed, you will receive a full measure, a generous helping, poured into your hands — all that you can hold. The measure you use for others is the one that God will use for you.” 
“Do not attack your own brothers, the people of Israel. Go home, all of you. What has happened is my will.” They all obeyed the LORD's command and went back home. 
so that when I am with you again, you will have even more reason to be proud of me in your life in union with Christ Jesus. 
Wisdom takes care of those who look for her; she raises them to greatness. 
He offered burnt offerings according to the requirements of the Law of Moses for each holy day: Sabbaths, New Moon Festivals, and the three annual festivals — the Festival of Unleavened Bread, the Harvest Festival, and the Festival of Shelters. 
On Judgement Day the Queen of Sheba will stand up and accuse the people of today, because she travelled all the way from her country to listen to King Solomon's wise teaching; and I tell you there is something here greater than Solomon.  
before God made the earth and its fields : or even the first handful of soil. 
The sun has its own beauty, the moon another beauty, and the stars a different beauty; and even among stars there are different kinds of beauty. 
She would never acknowledge that I am the one who gave her the corn, the wine, the olive oil, and all the silver and gold that she used in the worship of Baal. 
when he comes on that Day to receive glory from all his people and honour from all who believe. You too will be among them, because you have believed the message that we told you. 
If someone accidentally kills someone who is not an enemy, he may escape to any of these cities and be safe. 
When you finish that, turn over on your right side and suffer for the guilt of Judah for forty days — one day for each year of their punishment. 
There was no king in Israel at that time; all the people did just as they pleased. 
Remember how he held back the sun and made one day as long as two? 
He may be clever with words, but end up starving because people hate him. 
The only one left to send was the man's own dear son. Last of all, then, he sent his son to the tenants. ‘I am sure they will respect my son,’ he said.  
And when you feel the south wind blowing, you say that it is going to get hot — and it does.  
And so from now on, no tree, no matter how well watered it is, will grow as tall as that again or push its top through the clouds and reach such a height. All of them are doomed to die like mortals, doomed to join those who go down to the world of the dead.” 
When the Judean army reached a tower that was in the desert, they looked towards the enemy and saw that they were all lying on the ground, dead. Not one had escaped. 
Leah had lovely eyes, but Rachel was shapely and beautiful. 
Their graves are their homes for ever; : there they stay for all time, : though they once had lands of their own. 
I have the same hope in God that these themselves have, namely, that all people, both the good and the bad, will rise from death. 
Your work will provide for your needs; : you will be happy and prosperous. 
If two powerful men are opposing each other in court, casting lots can settle the issue. 
The disasters that punished the Egyptians saved your people when they were in trouble. 
He did what was pleasing to the LORD; he followed the example of his ancestor King David, strictly obeying all the laws of God. 
leaving Rehoboam as king only of the people who lived in the territory of Judah. 
When Esau heard this, he cried out loudly and bitterly and said, “Give me your blessing also, father!” 
When a rich person stumbles, his friends will steady him, but if a poor person falls, his friends will have nothing to do with him. 
“But if any nation or kingdom will not submit to his rule, then I will punish that nation by war, starvation, and disease until I have let Nebuchadnezzar destroy it completely. 
Esau hated Jacob, because his father had given Jacob the blessing. He thought, “The time to mourn my father's death is near; then I will kill Jacob.” 
There was a door under the rooms on the south side of the building, at the east end where the wall began. 
At that time King Hazael of Syria attacked the city of Gath and conquered it; then he decided to attack Jerusalem. 
They will crawl in the dust like snakes; they will come from their fortresses, trembling and afraid. They will turn in fear to the LORD our God. 
Listen to my excellent words; : all I tell you is right. 
The people go across the Valley of Willows, trying to escape with all their possessions. 
But the LORD told the prophet Shemaiah 
in worship of idols and witchcraft. People become enemies and they fight; they become jealous, angry, and ambitious. They separate into parties and groups; 
They open their mouths like lions, : roaring and tearing at me. 
In the same way the Spirit also comes to help us, weak as we are. For we do not know how we ought to pray; the Spirit himself pleads with God for us in groans that words cannot express. 
But his answer was: “My grace is all you need, for my power is greatest when you are weak.” I am most happy, then, to be proud of my weaknesses, in order to feel the protection of Christ's power over me. 
“I praise my God and rejoice in his greatness; : my whole being honours the King of Heaven. 
So the people did no work on the seventh day. 
She sang, : “Praise my God and sing to him; : praise the Lord with drums and cymbals; : play a new song for him. : Praise him and call on him for help. 
Go ahead and offer your bread in thanksgiving to God, and boast about the extra offerings you bring! This is the kind of thing you love to do. 
Look at the sky! See how high the clouds are! 
Wives, submit to your husbands, for that is what you should do as Christians. 
When Jethro heard all this, he was happy 
If God decided to do nothing at all, : no one could criticize him. : If he hid his face, we would be helpless. 
So they looked for an opportunity. They bribed some men to pretend they were sincere, and they sent them to trap Jesus with questions, so that they could hand him over to the authority and power of the Roman Governor. 
(It was the Babylonians, not the Assyrians, who let the wild animals overrun Tyre. It was the Babylonians who put up siege towers, tore down the fortifications of Tyre, and left the city in ruins.) 
Tell everyone who is discouraged, : “Be strong and don't be afraid! : God is coming to your rescue, : coming to punish your enemies.” 
They asked Jesus, “Were we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a demon in you?” 
He did this to demonstrate for all time to come the extraordinary greatness of his grace in the love he showed us in Christ Jesus. 
occupied the land of the Amorites, wiped out the people of Heshbon, crossed the River Jordan, and took possession of the entire mountain region. 
“No one, sir,” she answered. :   “Well, then,” Jesus said, “I do not condemn you either. Go, but do not sin again.” 
They are full of poison like snakes; : they stop up their ears like a deaf cobra, 
The rulers of Samaria were terrified. “How can we oppose Jehu,” they said, “when neither King Joram nor King Ahaziah could?” 
You should not get into an argument with anyone who has a hot temper or go to a place where the two of you will be alone. Violence means nothing to such a person, and he will attack you when there is no one to help you. 
He chose Jacob for himself, : the people of Israel for his own. 
The angel replied, “Have you already forgotten your father's instructions? He told you to marry a woman from your own tribe. So, listen carefully to what I say. Don't worry about the demon. Marry Sarah! I know that tonight Raguel will let Sarah marry you. 
The money she earns by commerce will be dedicated to the LORD. She will not store it away, but those who worship the LORD will use her money to buy the food and the clothing they need.
The tribes of Reuben and Gad and the other half of the tribe of Manasseh had already received the land that Moses, the LORD's servant, had given them; it was on the east side of the River Jordan. 
he sent back this answer: “The LORD tells you not to let the Assyrians frighten you by their claims that he cannot save you. 
God does not bring disaster on their homes; : they never have to live in terror. 
In the same way you have people among you who follow the teaching of the Nicolaitans.  
O Lord, your acts of judgement are marvellous and hard to explain; that is why people who had not been taught about them went astray. 
The LORD said, “Assyria! I use Assyria like a club to punish those with whom I am angry. 
If I had ignored my sins, : the Lord would not have listened to me. 
Although you become as numerous as the stars in the sky, only a few of you will survive, because you did not obey the LORD your God. 
I hear all this, and I tremble; : my lips quiver with fear. : My body goes limp, : and my feet stumble beneath me. : I will quietly wait for the time to come : when God will punish those who attack us. 
the bravest men started out and marched all night to Beth Shan. They took down the bodies of Saul and his sons from the wall, brought them back to Jabesh, and burnt them there. 
The LORD will choose a single place where he is to be worshipped, and there you must bring to him everything that I have commanded: your sacrifices that are to be burnt and your other sacrifices, your tithes and your offerings, and those special gifts that you have promised to the LORD. 
and went to bed for the night. : Later that night, Raguel called his servants, and together they went out to dig a grave, 
Celebrate it for seven days. This regulation is to be kept by your descendants for all time to come. 
Any one of you can make a thousand men run away, because the LORD your God is fighting for you, just as he promised. 
Then Sarai said to Abram, “It's your fault that Hagar despises me. I myself gave her to you, and ever since she found out that she was pregnant, she has despised me. May the LORD judge which of us is right, you or me!” 
for it is the light that brings a rich harvest of every kind of goodness, righteousness, and truth. 
Anyone, ritually clean or unclean, may eat that meat, just as he would eat the meat of deer or antelope. 
to govern the world with holiness and righteousness, to administer justice with integrity. 
From Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by order of God our Saviour and Christ Jesus our hope — 
The LORD says, “I am sending for many fishermen to come and catch these people. Then I will send for many hunters to hunt them down on every mountain and hill and in the caves among the rocks. 
No Passover like this one had ever been celebrated by any of the kings of Israel or of Judah, since the time when judges ruled the nation. 
Do you know how clouds float in the sky, : the work of God's amazing skill? 
A wicked person has no future — nothing to look forward to. 
This is what love is: it is not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the means by which our sins are forgiven. 
Many people have sinned while looking for a profit; if you want to be rich you have to keep blinkers on your eyes. 
They were looking for Jesus, and as they gathered in the Temple, they asked one another, “What do you think? Surely he will not come to the festival, will he?” 
The Word was in the world, and though God made the world through him, yet the world did not recognize him. 
A wise son pays attention when his father corrects him, but an arrogant person never admits he is wrong. 
“Get my chariot ready,” King Joram ordered. It was done, and he and King Ahaziah rode out, each in his own chariot, to meet Jehu. They met him at the field which had belonged to Naboth. 
My friends and neighbours will not come near me, : because of my sores; : even my family keeps away from me. 
The angel threw him into the abyss, locked it, and sealed it, so that he could not deceive the nations any more until the thousand years were over. After that he must be let loose for a little while. 
Moses did everything just as the LORD had commanded. 
But outside the city are the perverts and those who practise magic, the immoral and the murderers, those who worship idols and those who are liars both in words and deeds. 
The people felt sorry for the Benjaminites because the LORD had broken the unity of the tribes of Israel. 
I pray to God that my thoughts may be worthy of what I have learnt, and that I may speak according to his will. He is Wisdom's guide; he gives correction to those who are wise. 
and the magnificent garments the priests are to wear when they serve in the Holy Place — the sacred clothes for Aaron the priest and for his sons.” 
He protects the strangers who live in our land; : he helps widows and orphans, : but takes the wicked to their ruin. 
If you want to save your life and the life of your son Solomon, I would advise you 
In the mountains of Lebanon we will cut down all the cedars you need, bind them together in rafts, and float them by sea as far as Joppa. From there you can take them to Jerusalem.” 
This is the list of the administrators of the tribes of Israel: :  :  : Reuben : Eliezer son of Zichri : Simeon : Shephatiah son of Maacah : Levi : Hashabiah son of Kemuel : Aaron : Zadok : Judah : Elihu, one of King David's brothers : Issachar : Omri son of Michael : Zebulun : Ishmaiah son of Obadiah : Naphtali : Jeremoth son of Azriel : Ephraim : Hoshea son of Azaziah : West Manasseh : Joel son of Pedaiah : East Manasseh : Iddo son of Zechariah : Benjamin : Jaasiel son of Abner : Dan : Azarel son of Jeroham 
Now I have heard that you can find hidden meanings and explain mysteries. If you can read this writing and tell me what it means, you will be dressed in robes of royal purple, wear a gold chain of honour round your neck, and be the third in power in the kingdom.” 
He will send rain in season from his rich storehouse in the sky and bless all your work, so that you will lend to many nations, but you will not have to borrow from any. 
The little you had before I came has grown enormously, and the LORD has blessed you wherever I went. Now it is time for me to look out for my own interests.” 
“At that time I will take a lamp and search Jerusalem. I will punish the people who are self-satisfied and confident, who say to themselves, ‘The LORD never does anything, one way or the other.’ 
He answered them: : “Now I am going to give you : corn and wine and olive oil, : and you will be satisfied. : Other nations will no longer despise you. 
Help me to speak, Lord, : and I will praise you. 
And Jesus concluded, “That is how my Father in heaven will treat every one of you unless you forgive your brother from your heart.”
Before you created the hills : or brought the world into being, : you were eternally God, : and will be God for ever. 
When King Jeroboam heard this, he pointed at him and ordered, “Seize that man!” At once the king's arm became paralysed so that he couldn't pull it back. 
You have made your people suffer greatly; : we stagger around as though we were drunk. 
The sons of Eli were scoundrels. They paid no attention to the LORD  
Isaac sent Jacob away to Mesopotamia, to Laban, who was the son of Bethuel the Aramean and the brother of Rebecca, the mother of Jacob and Esau. 
“All this I will give you,” the Devil said, “if you kneel down and worship me.” 
Abner and his men marched through the Jordan Valley all that night; they crossed the River Jordan, and after marching all the next morning, they arrived back at Mahanaim. 
‘Quick, run for your lives!’ they say. : ‘Run like a wild desert donkey!’ 
“Then I sent messengers from the desert of Kedemoth to King Sihon of Heshbon with the following offer of peace
Tell the people what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying: : “I am your enemy, mountains of Edom! : I will make you a desolate waste. 
It was a night when the LORD kept watch to bring them out of Egypt; this same night is dedicated to the LORD for all time to come as a night when the Israelites must keep watch. 
Righteous people know the kind thing to say, but the wicked are always saying things that hurt.
the kidneys and the fat on them, and the best part of the liver. 
Let the slaughter begin! The sons of this king will die because of their ancestors' sins. None of them will ever rule the earth or cover it with cities.” 
But those who hate their brothers and sisters are in the darkness; they walk in it and do not know where they are going, because the darkness has made them blind. 
“Reeds can't grow where there is no water; : they are never found outside a swamp. 
All these refer to things which become useless once they are used; they are only human rules and teachings. 
Protect people from those who want to wrong them, and be firm in your judgements. 
but your own great city will be humiliated and disgraced. Babylonia will be the least important nation of all; it will become a dry and waterless desert. 
Everywhere at Moab's borders the sound of crying is heard. It is heard at the towns of Eglaim and Beerelim. 
Jesus looked round and saw rich people dropping their gifts in the temple treasury, 
They will see his face, and his name will be written on their foreheads. 
Jesus answered him, “What do the Scriptures say? How do you interpret them?” 
He asked them what time it was when his son got better, and they answered, “It was one o'clock yesterday afternoon when the fever left him.” 
He also told us not to build houses or farm the land, and not to plant vineyards or buy them. He commanded us always to live in tents, so that we might remain in this land where we live like strangers. 
Darius decided to appoint 120 governors to hold office throughout his empire. 
But before you do any of this, send Achior the Ammonite to me. I want to see if he recognizes Holofernes, the man who spoke of Israel with contempt and sent Achior to us, thinking he would be killed along with the rest of us.” 
The LORD Almighty told Zechariah to say to the people, “I, the LORD, was very angry with your ancestors, 
People move boundary stones to get more land; : they steal sheep and put them with their own flocks. 
If you were in my place and I in yours, : I could say everything you are saying. : I could shake my head wisely : and drown you with a flood of words. 
Put in the best pieces of meat — : the shoulders and the legs — : fill it with choice bony pieces too. 
Your strength is the source of justice. You can show mercy to everyone, because you are the Lord of all. 
It is the Lord Almighty that you are putting to the test! Will you never learn? 
Phineas son of Eleazar — may the LORD be with him! — had supervised them at one time. 
This will be their fate because they are guilty of terrible sins — they have committed adultery and have told lies in the LORD's name. This was against the LORD's will; he knows what they have done, and he is a witness against them. The LORD has spoken.” 
Jeremiah, test my people, as you would test metal, and find out what they are like. 
To show that you are his sons and daughters, God sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, the Spirit who cries out, “Father, my Father.” 
“Oh, my son, the joy of my life, why did I ever let you leave home?” 
There were small openings in the outside walls of all the rooms and also in the inner walls between the rooms. There were palm trees carved on the inner walls that faced the passage. 
Pay attention, you foolish and stupid people, who have eyes, but cannot see, and have ears, but cannot hear. 
For Christ must rule until God defeats all enemies and puts them under his feet. 
So the king called out the young soldiers who were under the district commanders, 232 in all. Then he called out the Israelite army, a total of 7,000 men. 
When Joseph saw his brothers, he recognized them, but he acted as if he did not know them. He asked them harshly, “Where do you come from?” : “We have come from Canaan to buy food,” they answered. 
So quarrels broke out between the men who took care of Abram's animals and those who took care of Lot's animals. (At that time the Canaanites and the Perizzites were still living in the land.) 
Concentrate on the Law, which has been given to you. You do not need to know about things which the Lord has not revealed, 
and he told them to saddle his donkey for him. They did so, and he rode off 
Wisdom once rescued an innocent and holy people from a nation of oppressors. 
and said to them, “You brought this man to me and said that he was misleading the people. Now, I have examined him here in your presence, and I have not found him guilty of any of the crimes you accuse him of. 
And what about the seven loaves for the 4,000 men? How many baskets did you fill?  
I will never let her speak the name of Baal again. 
During all this time the Jewish leaders had been in correspondence with Tobiah. 
I spend the night in deep thought; : I meditate, and this is what I ask myself
After the people had left the meeting, Paul and Barnabas were followed by many Jews and by many Gentiles who had been converted to Judaism. The apostles spoke to them and encouraged them to keep on living in the grace of God. 
Even though they call me their God and claim that they are my people and that they know me, 
To the others I say (I, myself, not the Lord): if a Christian man has a wife who is an unbeliever and she agrees to go on living with him, he must not divorce her. 
Moses answered, “Wait until I receive instructions from the LORD.” 
One day while Jacob was cooking some bean soup, Esau came in from hunting. He was hungry 
My heart has been crushed : because my people are crushed; : I mourn; I am completely dismayed. 
But the Philistine commanders were angry with Achish and said to him, “Send that fellow back to the town you gave him. Don't let him go into battle with us; he might turn against us during the fighting. What better way is there for him to win back his master's favour than by the death of our men? 
she said to them, “Go back home and stay with your mothers. May the LORD be as good to you as you have been to me and to those who have died. 
That beast was once alive, but lives no longer; it is about to come up from the abyss and will go off to be destroyed. The people living on earth whose names have not been written before the creation of the world in the book of the living, will all be amazed as they look at the beast. It was once alive; now it no longer lives, but it will reappear. 
So Aaron held it out over all the water, and the frogs came out and covered the land. 
From the depths of my despair I call to you, LORD. 
Never praise anyone before you hear him talk; that is the real test. 
They attack like warriors; : they climb the walls like soldiers. : They all keep marching straight ahead : and do not change direction 
Moab and its cities are destroyed; : its finest young men have been slaughtered. : I am the king, the LORD Almighty, : and I have spoken. 
Then the king's magicians did the same thing by means of their magic, and the king was as stubborn as ever. Just as the LORD had said, the king refused to listen to Moses and Aaron. 
“Do not steal or cheat or lie. 
My people Israel, you have been threshed like wheat, but now I have announced to you the good news that I have heard from the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel. 
After you have seen it, you will die, as your brother Aaron did, 
Then he said to me, “Make the minds of these people dull, their ears deaf, and their eyes blind, so that they cannot see or hear or understand. If they did, they might turn to me and be healed.” 
Solomon sent a message to King Hiram of Tyre: “Do business with me as you did with my father, King David, when you sold him cedar logs for building his palace. 
I didn't take off my clothes even at night, neither did any of my companions nor my servants nor my bodyguard. And we all kept our weapons to hand.
He alone is immortal; he lives in the light that no one can approach. No one has ever seen him; no one can ever see him. To him be honour and eternal dominion! Amen. 
They sold you luxurious clothing, purple cloth, and embroidery, brightly coloured carpets, and well-made cords and ropes. 
When Joab gave up the chase, he gathered all his men and found that nineteen of them were missing, in addition to Asahel. 
We know that the Law is good if it is used as it should be used. 
These spies said to Jesus, “Teacher, we know that what you say and teach is right. We know that you pay no attention to anyone's status, but teach the truth about God's will for people. 
The storm winds come from the south, : and the biting cold from the north. 
So he sent his son Joram to greet King David and congratulate him for his victory over Hadadezer, against whom Toi had fought many times. Joram brought David presents made of gold, silver, and bronze. 
Then he sent young men, and they burnt sacrifices to the LORD and sacrificed some cattle as fellowship offerings. 
About the tribe of Naphtali he said: : “Naphtali is richly blessed by the LORD's good favour; : Their land reaches to the south from Lake Galilee.” 
“I will give you the land of Canaan,” he said. : “It will be your own possession.” 
On that day, even the man who has been castrated will be rewarded with happiness, if he has kept the Law and has not stored up resentment against the Lord. Because he has been faithful, he will receive a special reward more precious than having children: a place in the Lord's heavenly Temple. 
I myself will stay in Mizpah and be your representative when the Babylonians come here. But you can gather and store up wine, fruit, and olive oil, and live in the villages you occupy.” 
The male Levites who were one month old or older numbered 23,000. They were listed separately from the rest of the Israelites, because they were not given any property in Israel. 
He also said to them, “The Son of Man must suffer much and be rejected by the elders, the chief priests, and the teachers of the Law. He will be put to death, but three days later he will be raised to life.” 
“Come and see the man who told me everything I have ever done. Could he be the Messiah?” 
when he placed the clouds in the sky, : when he opened the springs of the ocean 
Ask God to bless those who persecute you — yes, ask him to bless, not to curse. 
a man fortunate enough to have an understanding wife, : a married couple who are well-matched, : a person who never speaks sinfully, : a person who doesn't have to work for someone less competent than himself, 
Still others said, “We had to borrow money to pay the royal tax on our fields and vineyards. 
He died and was buried, and his son Pekahiah succeeded him as king. 
The LORD says, : “The prophets and the priests are godless; : I have caught them doing evil in the Temple itself. 
The emperor of Assyria took people from the cities of Babylon, Cuth, Ivvah, Hamath, and Sepharvaim, and settled them in the cities of Samaria, in place of the exiled Israelites. They took possession of these cities and lived there. 
As Saul was speaking to the priest, the confusion in the Philistine camp got worse and worse, so Saul said to him, “There's no time to consult the LORD!” 
Then all the Midianites, the Amalekites, and the desert tribes assembled, crossed the River Jordan, and camped in the Valley of Jezreel. 
I know what spiteful thoughts you have. 
There was a gateway at a higher level that led to the inner courtyard. The man measured the distance between the two gateways, and it was fifty metres. 
When Jacob learnt that there was corn in Egypt, he said to his sons, “Why don't you do something? 
He spent everything he had. Then a severe famine spread over that country, and he was left without a thing.  
Judith sent a slave, the woman who managed her business affairs, to invite Uzziah, Chabris, and Charmis, the town officials, to her home. 
Do you know when mountain goats are born? : Have you watched wild deer give birth? 
Terror will strike like a sudden flood; : a wind in the night will blow them away; 
But all uncooked grain offerings, whether mixed with oil or dry, belong to all the Aaronite priests and must be shared equally among them. 
The voice of the LORD is heard on the seas; : the glorious God thunders, : and his voice echoes over the ocean. 
But Ittai answered, “Your Majesty, I swear to you in the LORD's name that I will always go with you wherever you go, even if it means death.” 
So Elijah went to Zarephath, and as he came to the gate of the town, he saw a widow gathering firewood. “Please bring me a drink of water,” he said to her. 
Our fathers were killed in battle, and our wives and children have been taken away as prisoners. 
At that time the son who was born in the usual way persecuted the one who was born because of God's Spirit; and it is the same now. 
So then, when the LORD your God has given you the land and made you safe from all your enemies who live around you, be sure to kill all the Amalekites, so that no one will remember them any longer. Do not forget!
These cities and their towns were in the land which the families of the tribe of Zebulun received as their possession. 
Then take it from them and burn it on the altar, on top of the burnt offering, as a food offering to me. The odour of this offering pleases me. 
If you will serve me in honesty and integrity, as your father David did, and if you obey my laws and do everything I have commanded you, 
The Sovereign LORD never does anything without revealing his plan to his servants, the prophets. 
O LORD, punish those wicked people! : Remember those who are suffering! 
(Those who plotted against him were Zabad, the son of an Ammonite woman named Shimeath, and Jehozabad, the son of a Moabite woman named Shimrith). 
The fat of an animal that has died a natural death or has been killed by a wild animal must not be eaten, but it may be used for any other purpose. 
And John gave this testimony: “I saw the Spirit come down like a dove from heaven and stay on him. 
God answered, “I will be with you, and when you bring the people out of Egypt, you will worship me on this mountain. That will be the proof that I have sent you.” 
So the LORD scattered them all over the earth, and they stopped building the city. 
The rich man said, ‘Then I beg you, father Abraham, send Lazarus to my father's house,  
But we will be driven ashore on some island.” 
And the boundary line will continue from there on the west to the hill of Gareb and then round to Goah. 
Early the next morning Abraham hurried to the place where he had stood in the presence of the LORD. 
God purposely chose what the world considers nonsense in order to shame the wise, and he chose what the world considers weak in order to shame the powerful. 
Then they will be my people, and I will be their God. 
In the other towns and cities the people of Israel, the priests, the Levites, the temple workmen, and the descendants of Solomon's servants lived on their own property in their own towns. : The following is the list of the leading citizens of the province of Judah who lived in Jerusalem
He saw the slavery of the Israelites and was concerned for them.
Pride is like a fountain pouring out sin, and whoever persists in it will be filled with wickedness. That is why the Lord brought terrible punishments on some people and completely destroyed them. 
But I could not let their enemies boast : that they had defeated my people, : when it was I myself who had crushed them.’ 
King Amaziah organized all the men of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin into army units, according to the clans they belonged to, and placed officers in command of units of a thousand and units of a hundred. This included all men twenty years of age or older, 300,000 in all. They were picked troops, ready for battle, skilled in using spears and shields. 
After this I saw the temple in heaven open, with the Sacred Tent in it. 
You, Lord, always do what is right, but we have always brought disgrace on ourselves. This is true of all of us who live in Judea and in Jerusalem and of all the Israelites whom you scattered in countries near and far because they were unfaithful to you. 
The people of Manasseh and the people of Ephraim attack each other, and together they attack Judah. Yet even so the LORD's anger is not ended; his hand is still stretched out to punish.
I am sure, as I write this, that you will do what I ask — in fact I know that you will do even more. 
Lying is an ugly blot on a person's character, but ignorant people do it all the time. 
When Moses sent them out, he said to them, “Go north from here into the southern part of the land of Canaan and then on into the hill country. 
you cover yourself with light. : You have spread out the heavens like a tent 
He put all this food in the hands of Aaron and his sons, and they presented it as a special gift to the LORD. 
You will be afraid of high places, and walking will be dangerous. Your hair will turn white; you will hardly be able to drag yourself along, and all desire will have gone. : We are going to our final resting place, and then there will be mourning in the streets. 
Like his father Asa before him, he did what was right in the sight of the LORD; but the places of worship were not destroyed, and the people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense there. 
At that time Abimelech went with Phicol, the commander of his army, and said to Abraham, “God is with you in everything you do. 
The scripture says, “Abraham believed God, and because of his faith God accepted him as righteous.” 
“When the LORD your God gives you victory in battle and you take prisoners, 
“Now, O my God, look on us and listen to the prayers offered in this place. 
My angel will go ahead of you and take you into the land of the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Canaanites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, and I will destroy them. 
The man then took me out of the temple area by way of the north gate and led me round to the gate that faces east. A small stream of water was flowing out at the south side of the gate. 
You need not fear any dangers at night : or sudden attacks during the day 
“When Moses was forty years old, he decided to find out how his fellow-Israelites were being treated. 
You are to take some of its blood and put it on the projections on the top corners of the altar, and on the corners of the middle section of the altar, and all round its edges. In this way you will purify the altar and consecrate it. 
The most beautiful of songs, by Solomon. 
Edna said, “Do you know our cousin Tobit?” : “We certainly do know him,” they answered. : “How is he?” she asked. 
Listen to what I am saying; pay attention to what I am telling you. 
Because he submitted to the LORD, the LORD's anger did not completely destroy him, and things went well for Judah. 
“The people of distant lands have seen what I have done; : they are frightened and tremble with fear. : So they all assemble and come. 
Amaziah's army was defeated, and all his soldiers fled to their homes. 
I always do what God commands; : I follow his will, not my own desires. 
But the joy that you have given me : is more than they will ever have : with all their corn and wine. 
You have power over life and death; you can bring a person to the brink of death and back again. 
Your commandments are my eternal possession; : they are the joy of my heart. 
Let me tell you how hard I have worked for you and for the people in Laodicea and for all others who do not know me personally. 
She sent a message to Elijah: “May the gods strike me dead if by this time tomorrow I don't do the same thing to you that you did to the prophets.” 
I will destroy the cities in your land and tear down all your defences. 
No matter how much a lazy person may want something, he will never get it. A hard worker will get everything he wants. 
Jehu looked up and shouted, “Who is on my side?” Two or three palace officials looked down at him from a window, 
One disaster will follow another, and a steady stream of bad news will pour in. You will beg the prophets to reveal what they foresee. The priests will have nothing to teach the people, and the elders will have no advice to give. 
But a Samaritan who was travelling that way came upon the man, and when he saw him, his heart was filled with pity.  
Help us, O God, and save us; : rescue us and forgive our sins : for the sake of your own honour. 
His face gleamed like such precious stones as jasper and carnelian, and all round the throne there was a rainbow the colour of an emerald. 
There was peace in the land for forty years, and then Othniel died. 
Then the third angel poured out his bowl on the rivers and the springs of water, and they turned into blood. 
in addition to the taxes paid by the traders and merchants. The kings of Arabia and the governors of the Israelite districts also brought him silver and gold. 
In the future you can easily find out if I have been honest. When you come to check up on my wages, if I have any goat that isn't speckled or spotted or any sheep that isn't black, you will know that it has been stolen.” 
Don't be worried on account of the wicked; : don't be jealous of those who do wrong. 
Yet when he received the news that Lazarus was ill, he stayed where he was for two more days. 
Her enemies succeeded; they hold her in their power. : The LORD has made her suffer for all her many sins; : Her children have been captured and taken away. 
Raise the war cry all round the city! Now Babylon has surrendered. Its walls have been broken through and torn down. I am taking my revenge on the Babylonians. So take your revenge on them, and treat them as they have treated others. 
Hunger has made us burn with fever, : until our skin is as hot as an oven. 
Then Aaron built an altar in front of the gold bull calf and announced, “Tomorrow there will be a festival to honour the LORD.” 
They made them all the same size, thirteen metres long and two metres wide. 
When Pilate heard this, he was even more afraid. 
She said, “Here is my slave Bilhah; sleep with her, so that she can have a child for me. In this way I can become a mother through her.” 
As for us, we have this large crowd of witnesses round us. So then, let us rid ourselves of everything that gets in the way, and of the sin which holds on to us so tightly, and let us run with determination the race that lies before us. 
Jesus answered, “ ‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind.’  
I confess my sins; : they fill me with anxiety. 
Don't be afraid of them, for the LORD your God will fight for you.’ 
In those days no one could come and go in safety, because there was trouble and disorder in every land. 
The angel also measured the wall, and it was sixty metres high, according to the standard unit of measure which he was using.  
and before the evil you did had been exposed? Now you are just like her — a joke to the Edomites, the Philistines, and your other neighbours who hate you. 
They said, “Come and lead us, so that we can fight the Ammonites.” 
There comes a time when mountains fall : and solid cliffs are moved away. 
Gideon built an altar to the LORD there and named it “The LORD is Peace”. (It is still standing at Ophrah, which belongs to the clan of Abiezer.) 
It is better to be patient than powerful. It is better to win control over yourself than over whole cities. 
The whole year shall be sacred for you; you shall eat only what the fields produce of themselves. 
These are the measurements of the altar, using the same unit of measurement as in measuring the Temple. All round the base of the altar there was a gutter fifty centimetres deep and fifty centimetres wide, with a rim at the outside edge 25 centimetres high. 
Then go and get the prize calf and kill it, and let us celebrate with a feast!  
How long must I see the battle raging : and hear the blasts of trumpets? 
When the repairs were finished, the remaining gold and silver was given to the king and Jehoiada, who used it to have bowls and other utensils made for the Temple. : As long as Jehoiada was alive, sacrifices were offered regularly at the Temple. 
Once again old men and women, so old that they use a stick when they walk, will be sitting in the city squares. 
The people must make a sacred tent for me, so that I may live among them. 
Yes, I say, you will find me, and I will restore you to your land. I will gather you from every country and from every place to which I have scattered you, and I will bring you back to the land from which I had sent you away into exile. I, the LORD, have spoken.’ 
then a poor widow came along and dropped in two little copper coins, worth about a penny. 
But the man who had been healed did not know who Jesus was, for there was a crowd in that place, and Jesus had slipped away. 
Very early the next morning, long before daylight, Jesus got up and left the house. He went out of the town to a lonely place, where he prayed. 
as well as all the territory of the Avvim to the south. (The land from the stream of Shihor, at the Egyptian border, as far north as the border of Ekron was considered Canaanite; the kings of the Philistines lived at Gaza, Ashdod, Ashkelon, Gath, and Ekron.) 
The snake replied, “That's not true; you will not die. 
but some of the people said, “It is Beelzebul, the chief of the demons, who gives him the power to drive them out.” 
“Any Levite who wants to may come from any town in Israel to the one place of worship 
Jesus said to them, “The times and occasions are set by my Father's own authority, and it is not for you to know when they will be.  
I have set a time for bringing disaster on the people of Anathoth, and when that time comes, none of them will survive.”
Then he shall put some of the blood on the projections at the corners of the incense altar in the Tent. He shall pour out the rest of the blood at the base of the altar used for burning sacrifices, which is at the entrance of the Tent. 
But I did not, since that would have brought dishonour to my name among the nations which had seen me bring Israel out of Egypt. 
The Sovereign LORD has filled me with his Spirit. : He has chosen me and sent me : To bring good news to the poor, : To heal the broken-hearted, : To announce release to captives : And freedom to those in prison. 
When terrible, fierce snakes attacked your people and were killing them with their poison, you did not remain angry long enough to destroy your people. 
At the same time, get a room ready for me, because I hope that God will answer the prayers of all of you and give me back to you. 
Do not make any agreement with them or with their gods. 
When the people heard this, they fell on their knees and worshipped God. They prayed
I know that your love will last for all time, : that your faithfulness is as permanent as the sky. 
and in his spiritual existence he went and preached to the imprisoned spirits. 
Your trust in God will never be forgotten by those who tell of God's power. 
I will let a few of them survive the war, the famine, and the diseases, so that there among the nations they will realize how disgusting their actions have been and will acknowledge that I am the LORD.” 
He took plenty of money with him and won't be back for two weeks.” 
Jesus said to them, “Haven't you ever read what the Scriptures say? :   ‘The stone which the builders rejected as worthless :   turned out to be the most important of all. :   This was done by the Lord; :   what a wonderful sight it is!’ 
They tried all kinds of wickedness, until the Lord took vengeance on them.
His hands were not tied, : And his feet were not bound; : He died like someone killed by criminals!” : And the people wept for him again. 
The LORD's servant Joshua son of Nun died at the age of 110. 
The letters said: “Proclaim a day of fasting, call the people together, and give Naboth the place of honour. 
Its head was made of the finest gold; its chest and arms were made of silver; its waist and hips of bronze; 
but here is a place beside me where you can stand on a rock. 
The wicked succeed in everything. : They cannot understand God's judgements; : they sneer at their enemies. 
For God did not send his Son into the world to be its judge, but to be its saviour. 
He said, “The LORD your God has been with you and given you peace on all sides. He let me conquer all the people who used to live in this land, and they are now subject to you and to the LORD. 
And Micaiah concluded: “This is what has happened. The LORD has made these prophets of yours lie to you. But he himself has decreed that you will meet with disaster!” 
Let us not give up the habit of meeting together, as some are doing. Instead, let us encourage one another all the more, since you see that the Day of the Lord is coming nearer. 
But if you or your descendants stop following me, if you disobey the laws and commands I have given you, and worship other gods, 
Priests who are descended from Aaron are to be with the Levites when tithes are collected, and for use in the Temple the Levites are to take to the temple storerooms one tenth of all the tithes they collect. 
At that same time some Pharisees came to Jesus and said to him, “You must get out of here and go somewhere else, because Herod wants to kill you.” 
Some teachers of the Law who had come from Jerusalem were saying, “He has Beelzebul in him! It is the chief of the demons who gives him the power to drive them out.” 
I come to you, LORD, for protection; : never let me be defeated. : You are a righteous God; : save me, I pray! 
Generations come and generations go, but the world stays just the same. 
Then Judith raised the sword and struck him twice on the neck as hard as she could, chopping off his head. 
Ever since God created the world, his invisible qualities, both his eternal power and his divine nature, have been clearly seen; they are perceived in the things that God has made. So those people have no excuse at all! 
Instead, you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, with its thousands of angels. 
A man suffering from a dreaded skin disease came to Jesus, knelt down, and begged him for help. “If you want to,” he said, “you can make me clean.” 
A fool talks on and on. : No one knows what is going to happen next, and no one can tell us what will happen after we die. 
They called out to Lot and asked, “Where are the men who came to stay with you tonight? Bring them out to us!” The men of Sodom wanted to have sex with them. 
You only want to bring him down from his place of honour; : you take pleasure in lies. : You speak words of blessing, : but in your heart you curse him. 
Obal, Abimael, Sheba, 
Be in no hurry to lay hands on anyone in dedication to the Lord's service. Take no part in the sins of others; keep yourself pure. 
The woman at the door had become drowsy while she was sifting wheat and had fallen asleep, so Rechab and Baanah slipped in.  
There is no way that you can understand what is in the depths of a human heart or find out what a person is thinking. Yet you dare to read God's mind and interpret his thoughts! How can you claim to understand God, the Creator? No, my friends, you must stop arousing the anger of the Lord our God! 
He turned the rivers into blood, : and the Egyptians had no water to drink. 
A foolish person's mind works like a cartwheel, going round and round in circles. 
Go to the priest in charge at that time and say to him, ‘I now acknowledge to the LORD my God that I have entered the land that he promised our ancestors to give us.’ 
The Israelites were weak with hunger that day, because Saul, with a solemn oath, had given the order: “A curse be on anyone who eats any food today before I take revenge on my enemies.” So nobody had eaten anything all day. 
How wonderful it is to see : a messenger coming across the mountains, : bringing good news, the news of peace! : He announces victory and says to Zion, : “Your God is king!” 
The LORD asked, “Amos, what do you see?” : “A basket of fruit,” I answered. : The LORD said to me, “The end has come for my people Israel. I will not change my mind again about punishing them. 
Then Jesse called his son Abinadab and brought him to Samuel. But Samuel said, “No, the LORD hasn't chosen him either.” 
“Moses is the one who was rejected by the people of Israel. ‘Who made you ruler and judge over us?’ they asked. He is the one whom God sent to rule the people and set them free with the help of the angel who appeared to him in the burning bush. 
In addition to all these sons, David had sons by his concubines. He also had a daughter, Tamar. 
Jesus answered, “You have authority over me only because it was given to you by God. So the man who handed me over to you is guilty of a worse sin.” 
The messengers arrived at Gibeah, where Saul lived, and when they told the news, the people started crying in despair. 
God is my protector; : he saves those who obey him. 
Poor people are slaves of the rich. Borrow money and you are the lender's slave. 
and had built an altar. There he worshipped the LORD. 
He was not able to perform any miracles there, except that he placed his hands on a few sick people and healed them. 
A third angel followed the first two, saying in a loud voice, “Whoever worships the beast and its image and receives the mark on their forehead or on their hand 
and to register all the men between the ages of thirty and fifty who were qualified to work in the Tent of the LORD's presence. 
He did what was pleasing to the LORD, but did it reluctantly. 
And suddenly I found myself publicly disgraced.” 
and followed the example of the kings of Israel. He had metal images of Baal made, 
Set up the Tent according to the plan that I showed you on the mountain. 
If you do warn a good man not to sin and he listens to you and doesn't sin, he will stay alive, and your life will also be spared.” 
It is a difficult thing for someone to die for a righteous person. It may even be that someone might dare to die for a good person. 
You did business in Greece, Tubal, and Meshech and traded your goods for slaves and for articles of bronze. 
Each priest was to be responsible for the money brought by those he served, and the money was to be used to repair the Temple, as needed. 
They were all registered together with their wives, children, and other dependants, because they were required to be ready to perform their sacred duties at any time. 
When Jehu's letter was received, the leaders of Samaria killed all seventy of Ahab's descendants, put their heads in baskets, and sent them to Jehu at Jezreel. 
Everyone who has this hope in Christ keeps himself pure, just as Christ is pure. 
The nations gathered to fight him; : people came from everywhere. : They spread their hunting nets : and caught him in their trap. 
But Jesus took her by the hand and called out, “Get up, my child!”  
He is aware of everything a person does, and he takes care of those who fear him. 
The descendants of Eleazar from generation to generation are as follows: Phinehas, Abishua, 
Yet I will keep one of your descendants alive, and he will serve me as priest. But he will become blind and lose all hope, and all your other descendants will die a violent death. 
for the people of Israel. For seven days after a woman gives birth to a son, she is ritually unclean, as she is during her monthly period. 
But Hezekiah was too proud to show gratitude for what the LORD had done for him, and Judah and Jerusalem suffered for it. 
We must travel three days into the desert to offer sacrifices to the LORD our God, just as he commanded us.” 
“Come on,” he challenged David, “and I will give your body to the birds and animals to eat.” 
“We may eat the fruit of any tree in the garden,” the woman answered, 
By your Wisdom you made the human race to rule all creation, 
“Bring the bull to the front of the Tent of my presence and tell Aaron and his sons to put their hands on its head. 
Does it make you a better king : if you build houses of cedar, : finer than those of others? : Your father enjoyed a full life. : He was always just and fair, : and he prospered in everything he did. 
They drove out the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Shechemites, and all the Girgashites. The Israelites have now lived in these mountains for a long time. 
Be glad and rejoice for ever in what I create. The new Jerusalem I make will be full of joy, and her people will be happy. 
The repetition of your dream means that the matter is fixed by God and that he will make it happen in the near future. 
Their father said to them, “If that is how it has to be, then take the best products of the land in your packs as a present for the governor: a little resin, a little honey, spices, pistachio nuts, and almonds. 
and captured it. They killed the king and everyone else in the city as well as in the nearby towns. Joshua condemned the city to total destruction, just as he had done to Eglon. No one in it was left alive. 
Achior was rescued by the men of Bethulia, and has told us what he said at your war council. 
These people will soon be saying, “We have no king because we did not fear the LORD. But what could a king do for us anyway?” 
O God, hear my prayer and pleading. Restore your Temple, which has been destroyed; restore it so that everyone will know that you are God. 
‘Come on! We'll attack those people that feel safe and secure! Their city has no gates or locks and is completely unprotected.’ 
but whoever drinks the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring which will provide him with life-giving water and give him eternal life.” 
There was a time when you came and did terrifying things that we did not expect; the mountains saw you and shook with fear. 
And if anyone eats any part of the animal, he must wash his clothes, but he will still be unclean until evening; anyone who carries the dead body must wash his clothes, but he will still be unclean until evening. 
It is not right, Job, for you to say : that you are innocent in God's sight, 
“But your slave may not want to leave; he may love you and your family and be content to stay. 
Is this the way you should treat the LORD, : you foolish, senseless people? : He is your father, your Creator, : he made you into a nation. 
weight, you have been weighed on the scales and found to be too light; 
they didn't know what it was and asked each other, “What is it?” : Moses said to them, “This is the food that the LORD has given you to eat. 
You walked through the waves; : you crossed the deep sea, : but your footprints could not be seen. 
“Do not speak evil of God, and do not curse a leader of your people. 
to say to the people of Israel: “Make tassels on the corners of your garments and put a blue cord on each tassel. You are to do this for all time to come. 
No one chooses for himself the honour of being a high priest. It is only by God's call that a man is made a high priest — just as Aaron was. 
Followers of Jehoiada, descendant of Aaron: 3,700 men; 
There are people who curse their fathers and do not show their appreciation for their mothers. 
and shouted, “Jesus! Master! Take pity on us!” 
The king said, “Praise the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego! He sent his angel and rescued these men who serve and trust him. They disobeyed my orders and risked their lives rather than bow down and worship any god except their own. 
They said to Joshua, “We are at your service.” : Joshua asked them, “Who are you? Where do you come from?” 
Hapharaim, Shion, Anaharath, 
You pushed the sick ones aside and butted them away from the flock. 
In everything David did, he gave thanks and praise to the Holy Lord, the Most High. He loved his Creator and sang praises to him with all his heart. 
but Neco sent Josiah this message: “This war I am fighting does not concern you, King of Judah. I have not come to fight you, but to fight my enemies, and God has told me to hurry. God is on my side, so don't oppose me, or he will destroy you.” 
How terrible for you! You make fine tombs for the prophets — the very prophets your ancestors murdered.  
Then you may take half of what I own and go back to your father safe and sound. You will inherit the other half when Edna and I die. Have no doubts about our love for you; from now on you are as much our son as Sarah is our daughter. You can be sure of that, my son.”
I hear many enemies whispering; : terror is all round me. : They are making plans against me, : plotting to kill me. 
Anything made of cloth or leather on which the semen falls must be washed, and it remains unclean until evening. 
Now, LORD our God, rescue us from the Assyrians, so that all the nations of the world will know that only you, O LORD, are God.” 
He set up military camps throughout Edom, and the people there became King David's subjects. The LORD made David victorious everywhere. 
So he said to them, “When you lift up the Son of Man, you will know that ‘I Am Who I Am’; then you will know that I do nothing on my own authority, but I say only what the Father has instructed me to say.  
Be loyal and faithful, and God will forgive your sin. Obey the LORD and nothing evil will happen to you. 
Athaliah heard the people cheering for the king, so she hurried to the Temple, where the crowd had gathered. 
When Herod heard it, he said, “He is John the Baptist! I had his head cut off, but he has come back to life!” 
You stretched out your right-hand, : and the earth swallowed our enemies. 
the men, the women, the children, and the king's daughters. They took everyone whom Nebuzaradan the commanding officer had left under the care of Gedaliah, including Baruch and me. 
The priest shall take some of the olive oil and pour it in the palm of his own left-hand, 
The work was begun on the first day of the first month, and by the eighth day they had finished it all, including the entrance room to the Temple. Then they worked for the next eight days, until the sixteenth of the month, preparing the Temple for worship. 
An angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing on the right of the altar where the incense was burnt. 
The territory which they took and settled in included Bethel and the towns round it, as far east as Naaran and as far west as Gezer and the towns round it. It also included the cities of Shechem and Ayyah, and the towns round them. 
Then he measured the distance from the back wall of one room to the back wall of the room across the passage from it, and it was 12.5 metres. 
Make my enemies know : that you are the one who saves me. 
May God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peace. 
Some groups of Levites that had lived in the territory of Judah were assigned to live with the people of Benjamin.
On Judgement Day the people of Nineveh will stand up and accuse you, because they turned from their sins when they heard Jonah preach; and I tell you that there is something here greater than Jonah!  
You ask how I dare question your wisdom : when I am so very ignorant. : I talked about things I did not understand, : about marvels too great for me to know. 
So now LORD, I pray, show us your power and do what you promised when you said, 
Then Elijah said to Elisha, “Now stay here; the LORD has ordered me to go to Jericho.” : But Elisha answered, “I swear by my loyalty to the living LORD and to you that I will not leave you.” So they went on to Jericho. 
May the Lord show mercy to the family of Onesiphorus, because he cheered me up many times. He was not ashamed that I am in prison, 
Even the palace will be abandoned and the capital city totally deserted. Homes and the forts that guarded them will be in ruins for ever. Wild donkeys will roam there, and sheep will find pasture there. 
Slaves, obey your human masters with fear and trembling; and do it with a sincere heart, as though you were serving Christ. 
May all who come to you : be glad and joyful. : May all who are thankful for your salvation : always say, “How great is God!” 
Surely you won't kill the innocent with the guilty. That's impossible! You can't do that. If you did, the innocent would be punished along with the guilty. That is impossible. The judge of all the earth has to act justly.” 
You will know them by what they do. Thorn bushes do not bear grapes, and briars do not bear figs.  
During this vision in the night, I saw what looked like a human being. He was approaching me, surrounded by clouds, and he went to the one who had been living for ever and was presented to him. 
And so those whom God set apart, he called; and those he called, he put right with himself, and he shared his glory with them. 
If, then, we say that we have fellowship with him, yet at the same time live in the darkness, we are lying both in our words and in our actions. 
They are not to serve me as priests or to go near anything that is holy to me or to enter the Most Holy Place. This is the punishment for the disgusting things they have done. 
Your descendants would be as numerous as grains of sand, : and I would have made sure they were never destroyed.” 
“Teacher,” he asked, “which is the greatest commandment in the Law?” 
God has been at work in the north and the south, : but still I have not seen him. 
After Noah was 500 years old, he had three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
Once again my people will see the difference between what happens to the righteous and to the wicked, to the person who serves me and the one who does not.”
I trust you will know that we are not failures. 
For three days he was not able to see, and during that time he did not eat or drink anything. 
Like a cloud that fades and is gone, : people die and never return; 
When the healthy animals were mating, Jacob put the branches in front of them at the drinking troughs, so that they would breed among the branches. 
Yes, I will weaken him and strengthen the king of Babylonia. When I give him my sword and he points it towards Egypt, everyone will know that I am the LORD. 
The LORD spoke to me. 
Nothing I say to you is false; : you see before you a truly wise man. 
“The robe that goes under the ephod is to be made entirely of blue wool. 
But Jesus said, “Judas, is it with a kiss that you betray the Son of Man?” 
May sinners be destroyed from the earth; : may the wicked be no more. : Praise the LORD, my soul! : Praise the LORD!
I am the bread of life.  
they leave ruin and destruction wherever they go. 
Then it will be 33 more days before she is ritually clean from her loss of blood; she must not touch anything that is holy or enter the sacred Tent until the time of her purification is completed. 
But the LORD told me that I had killed too many people and fought too many wars. And so, because of all the bloodshed I have caused, he would not let me build a temple for him. 
of turning down a relative's request, : of depriving someone of what is rightly his, : of staring at another man's wife, 
The LORD protects the helpless; : when I was in danger, he saved me. 
Isaac lived to be 180 years old 
When Ishmael's prisoners saw Johanan and the leaders of the forces with him, they were glad, 
Their character shows in the way they dress, the way they laugh, and the way they walk.
The LORD hates evil thoughts, but he is pleased with friendly words. 
When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. 
And David says: : “May they be caught and trapped at their feasts; : may they fall, may they be punished! 
He formed a woman out of the rib and brought her to him. 
Their tongues are like deadly arrows; : they always tell lies. : Everyone speaks friendly words to his neighbour, : but is really setting a trap for him. 
in Enrimmon, in Zorah, in Jarmuth, 
The following towns were assigned to Aaron's descendants: Hebron, a city of refuge, Jattir, and the towns of Libnah, Eshtemoa, Hilen, Debir, Ashan, and Beth Shemesh, with their pasture lands. 
I am telling you the truth: whoever receives anyone I send receives me also; and whoever receives me receives him who sent me.” 
“Aaron's priestly garments are to be handed on to his sons after his death, for them to wear when they are ordained. 
I will bring the most evil nations here and let them have your homes. Your strongest men will lose their confidence when I let the nations profane the places where you worship. 
Be careful not to let bribes deceive you, : or riches lead you astray. 
Foreigners living there said, ‘We tried to help Babylonia, but it was too late. Let's leave her now and go back home. God has punished Babylonia with all his might and has destroyed it completely.’ ” 
But then if you turn back to me and do what I have commanded you, I will bring you back to the place where I have chosen to be worshipped, even though you are scattered to the ends of the earth.’ 
There is more profit in it than there is in silver; it is worth more to you than gold. 
When the week is over, the priests are to begin offering on the altar the burnt offerings and the fellowship offerings of the people. Then I will be pleased with all of you. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken.”
What human nature does is quite plain. It shows itself in immoral, filthy, and indecent actions; 
because I was jealous of the proud : when I saw that things go well for the wicked. 
The angel asked me what I saw. I answered, “A scroll flying through the air; it is nine metres long and 4.5 metres wide.” 
You tested your people, as parents test their children, to warn them. But you judged their enemies like a stern king and condemned them. 
Every athlete in training submits to strict discipline, in order to be crowned with a wreath that will not last; but we do it for one that will last for ever. 
I will turn my attention to proverbs : and explain their meaning as I play the harp. 
You have allowed it all to exist, O Lord, because it is yours, and you love every living thing.
And I beg you even more earnestly to pray that God will send me back to you soon. 
But burn the bull's flesh, its skin, and its intestines outside the camp. This is an offering to take away the sins of the priests. 
But those who do what is true come to the light in order that the light may show that what they did was in obedience to God. 
“ ‘You bad and lazy servant!’ his master said. ‘You knew, did you, that I reap harvests where I did not sow, and gather crops where I did not scatter seed?  
The king asked what had happened and was told that none of the animals of the Israelites had died. But he was stubborn and would not let the people go. 
Don't claim that he has misled you; he doesn't need the help of sinners to accomplish his purposes. 
Since it was the day before the Sabbath and because the tomb was close by, they placed Jesus' body there.
Again they started crying. Then Orpah kissed her mother-in-law goodbye and went back home, but Ruth held on to her. 
When I saw him, I fell down at his feet like a dead man. He placed his right-hand on me and said, “Don't be afraid! I am the first and the last.  
that he appeared to Peter and then to all twelve apostles. 
The elders who do good work as leaders should be considered worthy of receiving double pay, especially those who work hard at preaching and teaching. 
The land lies idle and deserted. The forests of Lebanon have withered, the fertile valley of Sharon is like a desert, and in Bashan and on Mount Carmel the leaves are falling from the trees. 
The king of Syria had ordered his chariot commanders to attack no one else except the king of Israel. 
Give a silly answer to a silly question, and the one who asked it will realize that he's not as clever as he thinks. 
I wanted to know what they were accusing him of, so I took him down to their Council. 
Why do you let us stray from your ways? Why do you make us so stubborn that we turn away from you? Come back, for the sake of those who serve you, for the sake of the people who have always been yours. 
and Israel was helpless against them. 
Those who will eat anything are not to despise those who don't; while those who eat only vegetables are not to pass judgement on those who will eat anything; for God has accepted them. 
Then Elijah said to King Ahab, “Now, go and eat. I hear the roar of rain approaching.” 
“Mortal man,” he said, “you are living among rebellious people. They have eyes, but they see nothing; they have ears, but they hear nothing, because they are rebellious. 
He fell asleep again and had another dream. Seven ears of corn, full and ripe, were growing on one stalk. 
While the Amorites were running down the pass from the Israelite army, the LORD made large hailstones fall down on them all the way to Azekah. More were killed by the hailstones than by the Israelites. 
You like to compose songs, as David did, and play them on harps. 
For false Messiahs and false prophets will appear. They will perform miracles and wonders in order to deceive even God's chosen people, if possible.  
Once a group of men from the tribes of Benjamin and Judah went out to the fort where David was. 
who was the father of Noah. Noah had three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
The LORD told Moses to take a census of the Levite clan of Merari by sub-clans and families, 
“Bring King Agag here to me,” Samuel ordered. Agag came to him, trembling with fear, thinking to himself, “What a bitter thing it is to die!”  
They were terrified, thinking that they were seeing a ghost. 
How strong God is! He despises no one; : there is nothing he doesn't understand. 
This is the secret meaning of the seven stars that you see in my right-hand, and of the seven gold lampstands: the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches.
Sarah got up so that they could pray together and ask God for his protection. Then Tobias prayed: : “God of our ancestors, you are worthy of praise. : May your name be honoured for ever and ever : by all your creatures in heaven and on earth. 
LORD, you are the one who protects me and gives me strength; you help me in times of trouble. Nations will come to you from the ends of the earth and say, “Our ancestors had nothing but false gods, nothing but useless idols. 
Save me, O God! : The water is up to my neck; 
Mary arrived where Jesus was, and as soon as she saw him, she fell at his feet. “Lord,” she said, “if you had been here, my brother would not have died!” 
How dare you try to discourage the people of Israel from crossing the Jordan into the land which the LORD has given them? 
Elam — 1,254 
Then Absalom turned to Ahithophel and said, “Now that we are here, what do you advise us to do?” 
Midian had five sons: Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. 
Above the heads of the creatures there was something that looked like a dome made of dazzling crystal. 
Now, “the Lord” in this passage is the Spirit; and where the Spirit of the Lord is present, there is freedom. 
The authorities made Jason and the others pay the required amount of money to be released, and then let them go. 
Zebulun and his sons: Sered, Elon, and Jahleel. 
When someone who is conceited gets his punishment, even an unthinking person learns a lesson. One who is wise will learn from what he is taught. 
We had raided the territory of the Cherethites in the southern part of Judah and the territory of the clan of Caleb, and we burnt down Ziklag.” 
when nations and kingdoms come together : and worship the LORD. 
“Make a box out of acacia wood, 110 centimetres long, 66 centimetres wide, and 66 centimetres high. 
I know you are Abraham's descendants. Yet you are trying to kill me, because you will not accept my teaching.  
They answered, “We did it, sir, because we learnt that it was really true that the LORD your God had commanded his servant Moses to give you the whole land and to kill the people living in it as you advanced. We did it because we were terrified of you; we were in fear of our lives. 
That is why I am sending him to you, in order to cheer you up by telling you how all of us are getting on. 
It is easier to carry a load of sand, salt, and iron than to put up with a stupid person. 
As a servant depends on his master, : as a maid depends on her mistress, : so we will keep looking to you, O LORD our God, : until you have mercy on us. 
In the wilds their young grow strong; : they go away and don't come back. 
From now on, I tell you, you will never see me again until you say, ‘God bless him who comes in the name of the Lord.’ ”
Elpaal's descendants included Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber, 
I will sing with joy because of you. : I will sing praise to you, Almighty God. 
Moses went back down the mountain, carrying the two stone tablets with the commandments written on both sides. 
But first let's consult the LORD.” 
The LORD gave many children to his people : and made them stronger than their enemies. 
But a country is fortunate to have a king who makes his own decisions and leaders who eat at the proper time, who control themselves and don't get drunk. 
Tell me, my love, : Where will you lead your flock to graze? : Where will they rest from the noonday sun? : Why should I need to look for you : among the flocks of the other shepherds? 
Happy is the person whom God corrects! : Do not resent it when he rebukes you. 
The whole sword went in, handle and all, and the fat covered it up. Ehud did not pull it out of the king's belly, and it stuck out behind, between his legs.  
Correct someone, and afterwards he will appreciate it more than flattery. 
The LORD sent famine to their country : and took away all their food. 
You shall obey me, the LORD your God, and I will rescue you from your enemies.” 
he gave them grain from heaven, : by sending down manna for them to eat. 
They gave him seventy pieces of silver from the temple of Baal-of-the-Covenant, and with this money he hired a bunch of worthless scoundrels to join him. 
I know, sir, that I have sinned, and this is why I am the first one from the northern tribes to come and meet Your Majesty today.” 
Restore my strength with raisins : and refresh me with apples! : I am weak from passion. 
Then in their trouble they called to the LORD, : and he saved them from their distress. 
This is what the Sovereign LORD is saying, “One disaster after another is coming on you. 
lightning and hail, snow and clouds, : strong winds that obey his command. 
But these have been written in order that you may believe that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God, and that through your faith in him you may have life.
I am not seeking honour for myself. But there is one who is seeking it and who judges in my favour.  
Later, when they desperately wanted better food, quails came up from the sea to satisfy their hunger. The quail was a bird they had never seen before. 
Because everyone will do what is right, there will be peace and security for ever. 
Owls and ravens will take over the land. The LORD will make it a barren waste again, as it was before the creation. 
The rulers meet and plot against me, : but I will study your teachings. 
Now stop and think! : Can a man give birth to a child? : Why then do I see every man with his hands on his stomach : like a woman in labour? : Why is everyone so pale? 
The day that Jesus made the mud and cured him of his blindness was a Sabbath. 
He said to them, “A man who divorces his wife and marries another woman commits adultery against his wife.  
How I wish God would answer you! 
They will be like vines that lose their unripe grapes; : like olive trees that drop their blossoms. 
You, LORD God, chose Abram : and led him out of Ur in Babylonia; : you changed his name to Abraham. 
It is foolish to follow your own opinions. Be safe, and follow the teachings of wiser people. 
You make grass grow for the cattle : and plants for human beings to use, : so that they can grow their crops 
When I defeat them, the Egyptians will know that I am the LORD.” 
God gave Solomon unusual wisdom and insight, and knowledge too great to be measured. 
If you are chosen to preside at a banquet, don't put on airs. Just be like everyone else. Look after the guests before you sit down. 
Human loyalty will reach up from the earth, : and God's righteousness will look down from heaven. 
Their children can never find safety; : no one stands up to defend them in court. 
in order to keep Satan from getting the upper hand of us; for we know what his plans are. 
We said goodbye to them and left. After sailing straight across, we came to Cos; the next day we reached Rhodes, and from there we went on to Patara. 
They will fill your palaces and the houses of all your officials and all your people. They will be worse than anything your ancestors ever saw.’ ” Then Moses turned and left. 
and after your son is born, you must never cut his hair, because from the day of his birth he will be dedicated to God as a Nazirite. He will begin the work of rescuing Israel from the Philistines.” 
God's altar, Jerusalem itself, is doomed! The city where David camped is doomed! Let another year or two come and go, with its feasts and festivals, 
“If a man sells his daughter as a slave, she is not to be set free, as male slaves are. 
But my friends say night is daylight; : they say that light is near, : but I know I remain in darkness. 
I wish I were leading this people! I would get rid of Abimelech! I would say to him, ‘Reinforce your army, come on out and fight!’ ” 
Judah, you have brought this on yourself by the way you have lived and by the things you have done. Your sin has caused this suffering; it has stabbed you through the heart. 
The chief priests met with the elders and made their plan; they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers 
Babylonia caused the death of people all over the world, and now Babylonia will fall because it caused the death of so many Israelites. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
While the two were telling them this, suddenly the Lord himself stood among them and said to them, “Peace be with you.” 
The people of Judah said to the people of Simeon, “Go with us into the territory assigned to us, and we will fight the Canaanites together. Then we will go with you into the territory assigned to you.” So the tribes of Simeon 
The LORD said to Moses, “Take Joshua son of Nun, a capable man, and place your hands on his head. 
The Judeans gave a loud shout, and led by Abijah, they attacked; God defeated Jeroboam and the Israelite army. 
As the lightning flashes across the sky and lights it up from one side to the other, so will the Son of Man be in his day.  
Messenger after messenger runs to tell the king of Babylonia that his city has been broken into from every side. 
When he had finished the service at the altar and had arranged the sacrifice to the Most High, the Almighty, 
You give me strength for the battle : and victory over my enemies. 
and his son Ishmael was thirteen. 
How terrible for the world that there are things that make people lose their faith! Such things will always happen — but how terrible for the one who causes them! 
They will be called worthless dross, because I, the LORD, have rejected them.”
Then he and his men went to the city of Amalek and waited in ambush in a dry riverbed. 
Then he picked up Elijah's cloak that had fallen from him, and went back and stood on the bank of the Jordan. 
Even though you are kind to the wicked, : they never learn to do what is right. : Even here in a land of righteous people they still do wrong; : they refuse to recognize your greatness. 
and Elisha told him to get ready to shoot. The king did so, and Elisha placed his hands on the king's hands. 
I will still be joyful and glad, : because the LORD God is my saviour. 
If you don't, as soon as you are dead my son Solomon and I will be treated as traitors.” 
This is a message about Israel from the LORD, the LORD who spread out the skies, created the earth, and gave life to man. He says, 
So King Zedekiah ordered me to be locked up in the palace courtyard. I stayed there, and each day I was given a loaf of bread from the bakeries until all the bread in the city was gone.
The people of Judah who survive will occupy your land. They will pasture their flocks there and sleep in the houses of Ashkelon. The LORD their God will be with them and make them prosper again. 
Let us come before him with thanksgiving : and sing joyful songs of praise. 
“But I know everything about you, what you do and where you go. I know how you rage against me. 
Someone may grow rich by working hard and denying himself pleasure, but what does he get for it? 
Don't give him freedom while he is young, and don't overlook what he does wrong. 
They will reach Jerusalem with gladness, : singing and shouting for joy. : They will be happy for ever, : for ever free from sorrow and grief.
They were double doors that swung open in the middle. 
The apostles and the other believers throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God. 
He remembered his sacred promise : to Abraham his servant. 
Moneylenders oppress my people, and their creditors cheat them. : My people, your leaders are misleading you, so that you do not know which way to turn. 
I obey your commands and your instructions; : you see everything I do. 
John is the one to whom you sent your messengers, and he spoke on behalf of the truth.  
“To the angel of the church in Sardis write: :   “This is the message from the one who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. I know what you are doing; I know that you have the reputation of being alive, even though you are dead!  
A blessing was on Noah's wooden boat that allowed righteousness to survive, 
Come and see what the LORD has done. : See what amazing things he has done on earth. 
Wake up, my soul! : Wake up, my harp and lyre! : I will wake up the sun. 
The people of Nineveh believed God's message. So they decided that everyone should fast, and all the people, from the greatest to the least, put on sackcloth to show that they had repented. 
And there was a widow in that same town who kept coming to him and pleading for her rights, saying, ‘Help me against my opponent!’  
It extended its branches to the Mediterranean Sea : and as far as the River Euphrates. 
So David gathered his forces, went to Rabbah, attacked it, and conquered it. 
and after a while his master's wife began to desire Joseph and asked him to go to bed with her. 
When he arrived, he went into the house and got a knife. He took his concubine's body, cut it into twelve pieces, and sent one piece to each of the twelve tribes of Israel. 
The life of every living thing is in the blood, and that is why the LORD has told the people of Israel that they shall not eat any meat with blood still in it and that anyone who does so will no longer be considered one of his people. 
So then, you will know the false prophets by what they do. 
In the first year of his reign, I was studying the sacred books and thinking about the seventy years that Jerusalem would be in ruins, according to what the LORD had told the prophet Jeremiah. 
So then, my brothers and sisters, when you gather together to eat the Lord's Supper, wait for one another. 
Be a good companion to Tobias, and I will add a bonus to your wages.” 
“On the hills of Israel our leaders are dead! : The bravest of our soldiers have fallen! 
When Edom falls, there will be such a noise that the entire earth will shake, and the cries of alarm will be heard as far away as the Gulf of Aqaba. 
and one of them, a teacher of the Law, tried to trap him with a question. 
King Benhadad's officials said to him, “The gods of Israel are mountain gods, and that is why the Israelites defeated us. But we will certainly defeat them if we fight them in the plains. 
This is the message that the LORD gave me about the city of Babylon and its people
For the scripture says to the king of Egypt, “I made you king in order to use you to show my power and to spread my fame over the whole world.” 
You were like sheep that had lost their way, but now you have been brought back to follow the Shepherd and Keeper of your souls.
A girl with no sense of propriety will disgrace both her husband and her father; neither will have any respect for her. 
You can't know much if you haven't experienced much, but travel can make you cleverer. 
“Issachar is no better than a donkey : That lies stretched out between its saddlebags. 
But because the Philosopher was wise, he kept on teaching the people what he knew. He studied proverbs and honestly tested their truth. 
Don't let my enemies say, “We have defeated him.” : Don't let them gloat over my downfall. 
There you will stay, I tell you, until you pay the last penny of your fine. 
“Later the other women arrived. ‘Sir, sir! Let us in!’ they cried out.  
After this was done, the Levites provided meat for themselves and for the priests descended from Aaron, for the priests were kept busy until night, burning the animals that were burnt whole and the fat of the sacrifices. 
He played with lions and bears as if they were lambs or little goats. 
Saul asked him, “Why are you and David plotting against me? Why did you give him some food and a sword, and consult God for him? Now he has turned against me and is waiting for a chance to kill me!” 
You are doomed! You have made your family rich with what you took by violence, and have tried to make your own home safe from harm and danger! 
There the LORD said to me, 
If an Israelite becomes poor and is forced to sell his land, his closest relative is to buy it back. 
Those who abandon you will certainly perish; : you will destroy those who are unfaithful to you. 
Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart, as though you were working for the Lord and not for human beings. 
If you have a big appetite, restrain yourself. 
I saw that the people were worried, so I said to them and to their leaders and officials, “Don't be afraid of our enemies. Remember how great and terrifying the Lord is, and fight for your fellow-countrymen, your children, your wives, and your homes.” 
If one of them falls on seed that is going to be sown, the seed remains clean. 
Then Elisha told the king to take the other arrows and strike the ground with them. The king struck the ground three times, and then stopped. 
So then, as the Holy Spirit says: : “If you hear God's voice today, 
and shouted at them. The men from Dan turned round and asked Micah, “What's the matter? Why all this mob?” 
He was the wisest of all men: wiser than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol, and his fame spread throughout all the neighbouring countries. 
You said, “I have made a covenant with the man I chose; : I have promised my servant David, 
Saul answered, “My men took them from the Amalekites. They kept the best sheep and cattle to offer as a sacrifice to the LORD your God, and the rest we have destroyed completely.” 
“Teacher,” the man said, “ever since I was young, I have obeyed all these commandments.” 
Avoid immorality. Any other sin a man commits does not affect his body; but the man who is guilty of sexual immorality sins against his own body. 
The tribe of Gad rebuilt the fortified towns of Dibon, Ataroth, Aroer, 
Have you forgotten all the wicked things that have been done in the towns of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem by your ancestors, by the kings of Judah and their wives, and by you and your wives? 
I will give you diligent and accurate instruction. 
“Where have you buried him?” he asked them. : “Come and see, Lord,” they answered. 
Don't be upset when someone becomes rich, : when his wealth grows even greater; 
In the same way,” concluded Jesus, “none of you can be my disciple unless you give up everything you have. 
But I reckon my own life to be worth nothing to me; I only want to complete my mission and finish the work that the Lord Jesus gave me to do, which is to declare the Good News about the grace of God. 
no more than a shadow. : All they do is for nothing; : they gather wealth, but don't know who will get it. 
He and his descendants are permanently established as priests, because he did not tolerate any rivals to me and brought about forgiveness for the people's sin.” 
and what he did to the two Amorite kings east of the Jordan: King Sihon of Heshbon and King Og of Bashan, who lived in Ashtaroth. 
a messenger came running to Job. “We were ploughing the fields with the oxen,” he said, “and the donkeys were in a nearby pasture. 
This is how we know that we love God's children: it is by loving God and obeying his commands. 
The cedars of Lebanon get plenty of rain — : the LORD's own trees, which he planted. 
I am old now; I have lived a long time, : but I have never seen good people abandoned by the LORD : or their children begging for food. 
You made a promise to your servant David; : do not reject your chosen king, LORD. 
A person may have a hundred children and live a long time, but no matter how long he lives, if he does not get his share of happiness and does not receive a decent burial, then I say that a baby born dead is better off. 
The man and the woman were both naked, but they were not embarrassed.
Some said, “He is the one,” but others said, “No he isn't; he just looks like him.” : So the man himself said, “I am the man.” 
But those who depend on faith, not on deeds, and who believe in the God who declares the guilty to be innocent, it is this faith that God takes into account in order to put them right with himself. 
and his sons Nemuel, Dathan, and Abiram. (These are the Dathan and Abiram who were chosen by the community. They defied Moses and Aaron and joined the followers of Korah when they rebelled against the LORD. 
and the punishment which I am going to bring on Jerusalem will not come until after your death. I will let you die in peace.” : The men returned to King Josiah with this message. 
When Joseph came up to his brothers, they ripped off his long robe with full sleeves.  
“After you have taken possession of the land that the LORD your God is going to give you and have settled there, then you will decide you need a king like all the nations round you. 
From there they went on to a place called Wells, where the LORD said to Moses, “Bring the people together, and I will give them water.” 
They offered their own sons and daughters : as sacrifices to the idols of Canaan. 
A loyal friend is like a medicine that keeps you in good health. Only those who fear the Lord can find such a friend. 
Make carrying poles of acacia wood and cover them with gold 
When Rachel died, she was buried beside the road to Ephrath, now known as Bethlehem. 
But Jephthah answered, “You hated me so much that you forced me to leave my father's house. Why come to me now that you're in trouble?” 
Then the LORD's angel came to the village of Ophrah and sat under the oak tree that belonged to Joash, a man of the clan of Abiezer. His son Gideon was threshing some wheat secretly in a winepress, so that the Midianites would not see him. 
They worshipped him and went back into Jerusalem, filled with great joy, 
My heart is crushed, : and I am trembling. : Because of the LORD, : because of his holy words, : I am like a man who is drunk, : a man who has had too much wine. 
Moses took all the fat on the internal organs, the best part of the liver, and the kidneys with the fat on them, and burnt it all on the altar. 
“Your father Solomon treated us harshly and placed heavy burdens on us. If you make these burdens lighter and make life easier for us, we will be your loyal subjects.” 
Don't you know what my ancestors and I have done to the people of other nations? Did the gods of any other nation save their people from the emperor of Assyria? 
My husband isn't at home. He's gone away on a long journey. 
This mob attacks me head-on; : they send me running; they prepare their final assault. 
You will remember how you have acted, and be ashamed of it when you get your elder sister and your younger sister back. I will let them be like daughters to you, even though this was not part of my covenant with you. 
Whenever Moses went into the Tent of the LORD's presence to speak to the LORD, he took the veil off. When he came out, he would tell the people of Israel everything that he had been commanded to say, 
“Sir,” Judith answered, “as surely as you live, I have more than enough food to last until the Lord has used me to carry out his plan.” 
I will put you in their power, and they will tear down the places where you engage in prostitution and worship idols. They will take away your clothes and jewels and leave you completely naked. 
Chief of the district governors: Azariah son of Nathan : Royal adviser: the priest Zabud son of Nathan 
I will scatter in every direction all the members of his court and his advisers and bodyguard, and people will search for them to kill them. 
and made their lives miserable by forcing them into cruel slavery. They made them work on their building projects and in their fields, and they had no mercy on them. 
His body was carried to Jerusalem on a horse, and he was buried in the royal tombs in David's City.
Philip went to the principal city in Samaria and preached the Messiah to the people there. 
He answered, “All right, I agree. I won't destroy that town. 
If you push yourself on him, he will put you in your place. On the other hand, if you keep your distance from him, he will forget about you. 
The LORD spoke to me. 
Nothing that you offer to the LORD is to be eaten in the places where you live: neither the tithes of your corn, your wine, or your olive oil, nor the firstborn of your cattle and sheep, the gifts that you promise to the LORD, your freewill offerings, or any other offerings. 
May those who attack me : be defeated and destroyed. : May those who try to hurt me : be shamed and disgraced. 
When I was only a little boy, my parents' only son, 
and Balaam uttered this prophecy: : “Come, Balak son of Zippor, : And listen to what I have to say. 
Then Saul said to them, “All of you stand over there, and Jonathan and I will stand over here.” : “Do whatever you think best,” they answered. 
Now get back to work! You will not be given any straw, but you must still make the same number of bricks.” 
“Then get rid of those foreign gods that you have,” he demanded, “and pledge your loyalty to the LORD, the God of Israel.” 
It is the LORD who gives wisdom; from him come knowledge and understanding. 
“Whenever cattle or sheep are sacrificed, the priests are to be given the shoulder, the jaw, and the stomach. 
as long as God gives me breath, 
“Your father placed heavy burdens on us. If you make these burdens lighter and make life easier for us, we will be your loyal subjects.” 
I have claimed them in the place of all the firstborn sons of the Israelites, and they belong to me alone. 
They treat kings with contempt and laugh at high officials. No fortress can stop them — they pile up earth against it and capture it. 
All those who work for me know : that I have always welcomed strangers. 
May the peoples praise you, O God; : may all the peoples praise you! 
Then the LORD's angel reached out and touched the meat and the bread with the end of the stick he was holding. Fire came out of the rock and burnt up the meat and the bread. Then the angel disappeared. 
He punishes us; then he shows us mercy. : He sends us down to the world of the dead, : then he brings us up from the grave. : No one can escape his power. 
The people kept praying to the merciful Lord Most High until the service of worship had come to a close. 
I am the LORD; why don't you fear me? Why don't you tremble before me? I placed the sand as the boundary of the sea, a permanent boundary that it cannot cross. The sea may toss, but it cannot go beyond it; the waves may roar, but they cannot break through. 
But Moses gave no wagons or oxen to the Kohathites, because the sacred objects they took care of had to be carried on their shoulders. 
As the mountains surround Jerusalem, : so the LORD surrounds his people : now and for ever. 
“But now,” Jesus said, “whoever has a purse or a bag must take it; and whoever has no sword must sell his coat and buy one.  
“I am the vine, and you are the branches. Those who remain in me, and I in them, will bear much fruit; for you can do nothing without me.  
He went and stood at her bedside and ordered the fever to leave her. The fever left her, and she got up at once and began to wait on them. 
Well, no wonder! Even Satan can disguise himself to look like an angel of light! 
So they took me and let me down by ropes into Prince Malchiah's well, which was in the palace courtyard. There was no water in the well, only mud, and I sank down in it. 
you saw me before I was born. : The days allotted to me : had all been recorded in your book, : before any of them ever began. 
They wanted to crush us completely; : they burnt down every holy place in the land. 
from the floor to above the doors. 
But they would not answer him, because on the road they had been arguing among themselves about who was the greatest. 
Then some Gentiles and Jews, together with their leaders, decided to ill-treat the apostles and stone them. 
Then the king said to Zadok, “Take the Covenant Box back to the city. If the LORD is pleased with me, some day he will let me come back to see it and the place where it stays. 
He sent it to the people in Bethel, to the people in Ramah in the southern part of Judah, and to the people in the towns of Jattir, 
“If you still continue to resist me and refuse to obey me, I will again increase your punishment seven times. 
Issachar: 200 leaders, together with the men under their command 
Jesus turned around and said to Peter, “Get away from me, Satan! You are an obstacle in my way, because these thoughts of yours don't come from God, but from human nature.” 
“Send one of the servant women to find out if Tobias is still alive. If he isn't, then we will bury him before anyone finds out.” 
Grief lingers on after the death of a loved one, but it is not wise to let it lead you into poverty. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “this is what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying to the land of Israel: this is the end for the whole land! 
Laban said to Jacob, “Why did you deceive me and carry off my daughters like women captured in war? 
Not long afterwards another large crowd came together. When the people had nothing left to eat, Jesus called the disciples to him and said, 
Give strength to hands that are tired : and to knees that tremble with weakness. 
I praise you because you always remember me and follow the teachings that I have handed on to you. 
“Because you were not satisfied by the others, you went running after the Assyrians. You were their prostitute, but they didn't satisfy you either. 
Let us, your servants, see your mighty deeds; : let our descendants see your glorious might. 
Jacob said, “Now tell me your name.” : But he answered, “Why do you want to know my name?” Then he blessed Jacob. 
and when they recognized him as the beggar who had sat at the Beautiful Gate, they were all surprised and amazed at what had happened to him. 
He hears us whenever we ask him; and since we know this is true, we know also that he gives us what we ask from him. 
Even though nothing dangerous had actually happened, they were terrified by hissing snakes and animals advancing on them. 
The younger daughter also had a son, whom she named Benammi. He was the ancestor of the present-day Ammonites.
Then the LORD said to me, 
because their people had done evil and had made me angry. They offered sacrifices to other gods and served gods that neither they nor you nor your ancestors ever worshipped. 
I thank the LORD for his justice, : I sing praises to the LORD, the Most High.
Abram answered, “Very well, she is your slave and under your control; do whatever you want with her.” Then Sarai treated Hagar so cruelly that she ran away. 
But Jehoshaphat asked, “Isn't there another prophet through whom we can consult the LORD?” 
Jesus said, “This is my blood which is poured out for many, my blood which seals God's covenant.  
and when they found him, they said, “Everyone is looking for you.” 
but he bends down : to see the heavens and the earth. 
For this son of mine was dead, but now he is alive; he was lost, but now he has been found.’ And so the feasting began. 
I am the one who has placed all these nations under the power of my servant, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia, and I have made even the wild animals serve him. 
the anointing oil, and the sweet-smelling incense for the Holy Place. In making all these things, they are to do exactly as I have commanded you.” 
“We heard him say, ‘I will tear down this Temple which men have made, and after three days I will build one that is not made by men.’ ” 
When they finished praying, the place where they were meeting was shaken. They were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to proclaim God's message with boldness. 
As a result, there is no longer any distinction between Gentiles and Jews, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarians, savages, slaves, and free, but Christ is all, Christ is in all. 
God has overlooked the times when people did not know him, but now he commands all of them everywhere to turn away from their evil ways. 
(The LORD said, “I will no longer pity anyone on earth. I myself will put all the people in the power of their rulers. Those rulers will devastate the earth, and I will not save it from their power.”) 
Strike them with blindness! : Make their backs always weak! 
Then he ran to the herd and picked out a calf that was tender and fat, and gave it to a servant, who hurried to get it ready. 
Lord, you have made your people great — glorious in all respects. You have never neglected them. You have given them help, always, everywhere.
Then he led the Israelites out; : they carried silver and gold, : and all of them were healthy and strong. 
Two blind men who were sitting by the road heard that Jesus was passing by, so they began to shout, “Son of David! Take pity on us, sir!” 
They are not to be unjust or show partiality in their judgements; and they are not to accept bribes, for gifts blind the eyes even of wise and honest men, and cause them to give wrong decisions. 
Only a shameful, disgraceful person would ill-treat his father or turn his mother away from his home. 
The LORD corrects those he loves, as parents correct a child of whom they are proud. 
When she had finished, the man took an expensive gold ring and put it in her nose and put two large gold bracelets on her arms. 
For even though I am absent in body, yet I am with you in spirit, and I am glad as I see the resolute firmness with which you stand together in your faith in Christ. 
If he becomes so bitter that he does curse you, his Creator will hear his prayer. 
O LORD, I have heard of what you have done, : and I am filled with awe. : Now do again in our times : the great deeds you used to do. : Be merciful, even when you are angry. 
The nations you conquered wore themselves out in useless labour, and all they have built goes up in flames. The LORD Almighty has done this. 
Don't fall into the habit of taking oaths, and don't use God's holy name too freely. 
He chose for us the land where we live, : the proud possession of his people, whom he loves. 
“Salt is good; but if it loses its saltiness, how can you make it salty again? :   “Have the salt of friendship among yourselves, and live in peace with one another.”
Jesus answered them, “How right Isaiah was when he prophesied about you! You are hypocrites, just as he wrote: :   ‘These people, says God, honour me with their words, :   but their heart is really far away from me. 
He disgraces those in power : and puts an end to the strength of rulers. 
Beth Lebaoth, and Sharuhen: thirteen cities, along with the towns round them. 
But it does not sink deep into them, and they don't last long. So when trouble or persecution comes because of the message, they give up at once.  
I will send victory from the sky like rain; : the earth will open to receive it : and will blossom with freedom and justice. : I, the LORD, will make this happen.” 
When the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh arrived at Geliloth, still on the west side of the Jordan, they built a large, impressive altar there by the river. 
And don't be troubled when you hear the noise of battles close by and news of battles far away. Such things must happen, but they do not mean that the end has come.  
The LORD sent another message to Ahaz
Are we then to follow your example and disobey our God by marrying foreign women?” 
Let us go forward! And this is what we will do, if God allows. 
Then the people of Israel sent Phinehas, the son of Eleazar the priest, to the people of the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh in the land of Gilead. 
The earth shakes as they advance; : the sky trembles. : The sun and the moon grow dark, : and the stars no longer shine. 
Then Jacob lost his temper. “What crime have I committed?” he asked angrily. “What law have I broken that gives you the right to hunt me down? 
and with it the priest shall perform the ritual of purification to remove the man's sin, and God will forgive him. 
That same night the king could not get to sleep, so he ordered the official records of the empire to be brought and read to him. 
“What do you advise me to do?” he asked. “What shall I say to the people who are asking me to make their burdens lighter?” 
The LORD is in his holy temple; : he has his throne in heaven. : He watches people everywhere : and knows what they are doing. 
I will make sure that my people Israel know my holy name, and I will not let my name be disgraced any more. Then the nations will know that I, the LORD, am the Holy God of Israel.” 
At that time the mourning in Jerusalem will be as great as the mourning for Hadad Rimmon in the plain of Megiddo. 
Then Jesus said to his host, “When you give a lunch or a dinner, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your relatives or your rich neighbours — for they will invite you back, and in this way you will be paid for what you did.  
The chief priests and the teachers of the Law stepped forward and made strong accusations against Jesus. 
Moses called for all the leaders of Israel and said to them, “Each of you is to choose a lamb or a young goat and kill it, so that your families can celebrate Passover. 
But when the officials arrived, they did not find the apostles in prison, so they returned to the Council and reported, 
Suddenly an angel of the Lord stood there, and a light shone in the cell. The angel shook Peter by the shoulder, woke him up, and said, “Hurry! Get up!” At once the chains fell off Peter's hands. 
the kidneys and the fat on them, and the best part of the liver. 
When you do your work, don't make a show of your skill, and don't try to put on an act when you are in trouble. 
I heard a voice calling out, “Whirling wheels”. 
Teach us what to say to God; : our minds are blank; we have nothing to say. 
But you, O LORD, are king for ever; : all generations will remember you. 
The whole of Mount Sinai was covered with smoke, because the LORD had come down on it in fire. The smoke went up like the smoke of a furnace, and all the people trembled violently. 
When Joseph saw his brother Benjamin, he said, “So this is your youngest brother, the one you told me about. God bless you, my son.” 
“You, my child, will be called a prophet of the Most High God. : You will go ahead of the Lord : to prepare his road for him, 
Zuph, Elkanah, Mahath, Amasai, 
There was a large herd of pigs near by, feeding on a hillside. 
As long as you live, you and your descendants are to honour the LORD your God and obey all his laws that I am giving you, so that you may live in that land a long time. 
These people are always grumbling and blaming others; they follow their own evil desires; they boast about themselves and flatter others in order to get their own way. 
Will any of you listen to this? : From now on will you listen with care? 
So the demons begged Jesus, “If you are going to drive us out, send us into that herd of pigs.” 
If he isn't, he will send messengers to meet the other king, to ask for terms of peace while he is still a long way off.  
because the Kingdom of heaven is like this. Once there was a king who decided to check on his servants' accounts.  
Dibon, Nebo, Beth Diblathaim, 
Laban and Bethuel answered, “Since this matter comes from the LORD, it is not for us to make a decision. 
and screamed in a loud voice, “Jesus, Son of the Most High God! What do you want with me? For God's sake, I beg you, don't punish me!” 
“Mortal man, groan as if your heart is breaking with despair. Groan in sorrow where everyone can watch you. 
I, John, solemnly warn everyone who hears the prophetic words of this book: if anyone adds anything to them, God will add to his or her punishment the plagues described in this book. 
and forty silver bases, two under each frame. 
It will be a holy part of the country, set aside for the priests who serve the LORD in his Temple. It will contain their houses and the section of land for the Temple. 
Instead, he told them as he left, “If it is the will of God, I will come back to you.” And so he sailed from Ephesus. 
The Jews have rules about ritual washing, and for this purpose six stone water jars were there, each one large enough to hold about a hundred litres. 
“If the world hates you, just remember that it has hated me first.  
Ahinadab son of Iddo: the district of Mahanaim 
I looked at this, thought about it, and learned a lesson from it
The LORD says, : “Listen to me, you that want to be saved, : you that come to me for help. : Think of the rock from which you came, : the quarry from which you were dug. 
but with good deeds, as is proper for women who claim to be religious. 
The LORD said to Moses, “Tell Aaron to take his stick and hold it out over all the rivers, canals, and pools in Egypt. The water will become blood, and all over the land there will be blood, even in the wooden tubs and stone jars.” 
I would give a tenth of my grain, wine, olive-oil, pomegranates, figs and other fruits to the Levites who served God in Jerusalem. Every year, except the seventh year when the land was at rest, I would sell a second tenth of my possessions and spend the money in Jerusalem on the festival meal. 
Hear what God says: : “When the time came for me to show you favour : I heard you; : when the day arrived for me to save you, : I helped you.” : Listen! This is the hour to receive God's favour; today is the day to be saved! 
I will make the heavens tremble, and the earth will be shaken out of its place on that day when I, the LORD Almighty, show my anger. 
You have six days in which to do your work, 
The Lord raised up Aaron, a holy man like his brother Moses, of the tribe of Levi. 
He comforted the mourners in Jerusalem. His powerful spirit looked into the future, 
The walls of mighty Babylon will be thrown to the ground, : and its towering gates burnt down. : The work of the nations is all for nothing; : their efforts go up in flames. : I, the LORD Almighty, have spoken.” 
Take also one leader from each tribe to help them divide it.” 
Then the second angel poured out his bowl on the sea. The water became like the blood of a dead person, and every living creature in the sea died. 
“Well, then, what kind of baptism did you receive?” Paul asked. : “The baptism of John,” they answered. 
Well then, are we Jews in any better condition than the Gentiles? Not at all! I have already shown that Jews and Gentiles alike are all under the power of sin. 
All the Philistines in the countryside were terrified; the raiders and the soldiers in the camp trembled with fear; the earth shook, and there was great panic. 
They invite foreigners to their mountain : And offer the right sacrifices there. : They get their wealth from the sea : And from the sand along the shore.” 
Give praise to the LORD, the God of Shem! : Canaan will be the slave of Shem. 
The LORD's angel appeared to him there and said, “The LORD is with you, brave and mighty man!” 
And I wanted to know about the ten horns on its head and the horn that had come up afterwards and had made three of the horns fall. It had eyes and a mouth and was boasting proudly. It was more terrifying than any of the others. 
The flax and the barley were ruined, because the barley was ripe, and the flax was budding. 
and so I have come down to rescue them from the Egyptians and to bring them out of Egypt to a spacious land, one which is rich and fertile and in which the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites now live. 
If God took back the breath of life, 
But the Lord will allow those who repent to return to him. He always gives encouragement to those who are losing hope. 
“When a person is accused of wronging another and is brought to your altar in this Temple to take an oath that he is innocent, 
“The LORD did not love you and choose you because you outnumbered other peoples; you were the smallest nation on earth. 
The disciples asked him, “Where, Lord?” : Jesus answered, “Wherever there is a dead body, the vultures will gather.”
Again and again they put God to the test : and brought pain to the Holy God of Israel. 
But God has brought you into union with Christ Jesus, and God has made Christ to be our wisdom. By him we are put right with God; we become God's holy people and are set free. 
Azariah and the other priests stared at the king's forehead in horror, and then forced him to leave the Temple. He hurried to get out, because the LORD had punished him. 
Finally they took the goats to the king and to the other worshippers, who laid their hands on them. 
“If someone takes the cover off a pit or if he digs one and does not cover it, and a bull or a donkey falls into it, 
But he controlled himself and went home. Then he invited his friends to his house and asked his wife Zeresh to join them. 
The cities belonging to the families of the tribe of Benjamin were Jericho, Beth Hoglah, Emek Keziz, 
I bought many slaves, and there were slaves born in my household. I owned more livestock than anyone else who had ever lived in Jerusalem. 
He closed the door and prayed to the LORD. 
I will leave there a humble and lowly people, who will come to me for help. 
The Father loves his Son and has put everything in his power. 
The LORD says, “Shout as loud as you can! Tell my people Israel about their sins! 
The LORD said to Joshua, “Take all the soldiers with you and go on up to Ai. Don't be afraid or discouraged. I will give you victory over the king of Ai; his people, city, and land will be yours. 
“At that time I will make the clans of Judah like a fire in a forest or in a field of ripe corn — they will destroy all the surrounding nations. The people of Jerusalem will remain safe in the city. 
They will tear off your clothes and take your jewels. 
The new covenant that I will make with the people of Israel will be this: I will put my law within them and write it on their hearts. I will be their God, and they will be my people. 
Never let them get away from you. Remember them and keep them in your heart. 
we pull down every proud obstacle that is raised against the knowledge of God; we take every thought captive and make it obey Christ. 
but you must buy back from him every firstborn male donkey by offering a lamb in its place. If you do not want to buy back the donkey, break its neck. You must buy back every firstborn male child of yours. 
He and his ruthless army will come to devastate the land. They will attack Egypt with swords, and the land will be full of corpses. 
Your laws are eternal, LORD, : and your Temple is holy indeed, : for ever and ever.
to say to the Levites: “When you receive from the Israelites the tithe that the LORD gives you as your possession, you must present a tenth of it as a special contribution to the LORD. 
Then his father said to him, “Come closer and kiss me, my son.” 
The king's daughter came down to the river to bathe, while her servants walked along the bank. Suddenly she noticed the basket in the tall grass and sent a slave woman to get it. 
I ask you to bless my descendants so that they will continue to enjoy your favour. You, Sovereign LORD, have promised this, and your blessing will rest on my descendants for ever.”
It's hopeless! I am like a hungry person who finds no fruit left on the trees and no grapes on the vines. All the grapes and all the tasty figs have been picked. 
The LORD made the Egyptians respect the Israelites. Indeed, the officials and all the people considered Moses to be a very great man. 
When the LORD gives the command, houses large and small will be smashed to pieces. 
I will silence their shouts of joy and gladness and the happy sounds of wedding feasts. They will have no oil for their lamps, and there will be no more corn. 
Jerahmeel, the eldest son of Hezron, had five sons: Ram, the eldest, Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “take a wooden stick and write on it the words, ‘The kingdom of Judah’. Then take another stick and write on it the words, ‘The kingdom of Israel’. 
Do not be afraid — I am with you! : “From the distant east and the farthest west, : I will bring your people home. 
His body was carried back to Jerusalem on a horse and was buried in the royal tombs in David's City. 
They will devour your crops and your food; they will kill your sons and your daughters. They will slaughter your flocks and your herds and destroy your vines and fig trees. The fortified cities in which you trust will be destroyed by their army. 
Saul said to him, “May God strike me dead if you are not put to death!” 
When a man or a woman has white spots on the skin, 
Then Moses set aside three cities east of the River Jordan 
Then everyone went home, but Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. 
for a will means nothing while the person who made it is alive; it comes into effect only after his death. 
Jesse then brought Shammah. “No, the LORD hasn't chosen him either,” Samuel said. 
They set up camp and broke camp in obedience to the commands which the LORD gave through Moses.
Don't make yourself a beggar by borrowing for expensive banquets when you haven't enough money of your own.
The LORD said to Moses, 
You have taught many people : and given strength to feeble hands. 
Those were the brave deeds of Benaiah, who was one of “The Thirty”.  
He killed the bull and the ram as a fellowship offering for the people. His sons brought him the blood, and he threw it on all four sides of the altar. 
His neighbours, then, and the people who had seen him begging before this, asked, “Isn't this the man who used to sit and beg?” 
O LORD God, fulfil the promise you made to my father. You have made me king over a people who are so many that they cannot be counted, 
Do not be ashamed, then, of witnessing for our Lord; nor be ashamed of me, a prisoner for Christ's sake. Instead, take your part in suffering for the Good News, as God gives you the strength to do it. 
Let me hear your voice from the garden, my love; : my companions are waiting to hear you speak. 
more so than the man who never enjoys life, though he may live 2,000 years. After all, both of them are going to the same place. 
Josiah was eight years old when he became king of Judah, and he ruled in Jerusalem for 31 years. 
Eleazar son of Aaron the priest shall be responsible for the whole Tent and for the oil for the lamps, the incense, the grain offerings, the anointing oil, and everything else in the Tent that has been consecrated to the LORD. 
You are the God who works miracles; : you showed your might among the nations. 
As soon as I sin, I'm in trouble with you, : but when I do right, I get no credit. : I am miserable and covered with shame. 
The rich people send their servants for water; : they go to the cisterns, : but find no water; : they come back with their jars empty. : Discouraged and confused, : they hide their faces. 
So they are punished by their own evil : and are hurt by their own violence. 
telling them to observe the fourteenth and fifteenth days of Adar as holidays every year. 
Don't act like a lion at home or be suspicious of your servants. 
He is to receive the same amount of food as the other priests, and he may keep whatever his family sends him. 
How much more, then, should I have pity on Nineveh, that great city. After all, it has more than 120,000 innocent children in it, as well as many animals!”
“Our ancestors had the Tent of God's presence with them in the desert. It had been made as God had told Moses to make it, according to the pattern that Moses had been shown. 
He rules over the sea, which he made; : the land also, which he himself formed. 
While Paul was waiting in Athens for Silas and Timothy, he was greatly upset when he noticed how full of idols the city was. 
The priest Eliashib, who was in charge of the temple storerooms, had for a long time been on good terms with Tobiah. 
Priests died by violence, : and their widows were not allowed to mourn. 
So the commander went to Paul and asked him, “Tell me, are you a Roman citizen?” : “Yes,” answered Paul. 
“So now, I, the Sovereign LORD, tell you that I will judge between you strong sheep and the weak sheep. 
The LORD says to Babylon, : “Sit in silence and darkness; : no more will they call you the queen of nations! 
Someone who speaks rashly and recklessly is feared and hated by everyone in town.
to the priest who offers the blood and the fat of the fellowship offering. 
The king's anger is like the roar of a lion, but his favour is like welcome rain. 
He had a son named Saul, a handsome man in the prime of life. Saul was a head taller than anyone else in Israel and more handsome as well. 
The Jewish High Priest brings the blood of the animals into the Most Holy Place to offer it as a sacrifice for sins; but the bodies of the animals are burnt outside the camp. 
Listen to Wisdom! She proudly sings her own praises among the Israelites, her own people, 
Now Samuel had died, and all the Israelites had mourned for him and had buried him in his own city of Ramah. Saul had forced all the fortune tellers and mediums to leave Israel. 
You will have all you want to eat, and you will give thanks to the LORD your God for the fertile land that he has given you. 
“Do not judge others, so that God will not judge you,  
And you have, in fact, behaved like this towards all the brothers and sisters in all Macedonia. So we beg you, our brothers and sisters, to do even more. 
His appearing will be brought about at the right time by God, the blessed and only Ruler, the King of kings and the Lord of lords. 
There is one Lord, one faith, one baptism; 
He smashed to pieces the Temple where we worshipped him; : He has put an end to holy days and Sabbaths. : King and priest alike have felt the force of his anger. 
So he took some soil from the ground and formed all the animals and all the birds. Then he brought them to the man to see what he would name them; and that is how they all got their names. 
“What is your name?” the man asked. : “Jacob,” he answered. 
Jesus answered them, “Have faith in God.  
At this point I had another vision and saw an open door in heaven. And the voice that sounded like a trumpet, which I had heard speaking to me before, said, “Come up here, and I will show you what must happen after this.”  
Who will accuse God's chosen people? God himself declares them not guilty! 
Saul realized clearly that the LORD was with David and also that his daughter Michal loved him. 
and there in front of the curtain he placed the altar for burning offerings. On it he sacrificed the burnt offering and the grain offering, just as the LORD had commanded. 
If the God of my fathers, the God of Abraham and Isaac, had not been with me, you would have already sent me away empty-handed. But God has seen my trouble and the work I have done, and last night he gave his judgement.” 
The total number of these people directly descended from Jacob was seventy. His son Joseph was already in Egypt. 
The bowmen are the bravest men of Kedar, but few of them will be left. I, the LORD God of Israel, have spoken.”
As it is written in the book of the prophet Isaiah: : “Someone is shouting in the desert: : ‘Get the road ready for the Lord; : make a straight path for him to travel! 
We have been mocked too long by the rich : and scorned by proud oppressors.
Esther's command, confirming the rules for Purim, was written down on a scroll.
Reverence for the LORD gives confidence and security to a man and his family. 
Then the people who feared the LORD spoke to one another, and the LORD listened and heard what they said. In his presence, there was written down in a book a record of those who feared the LORD and respected him. 
But he answered, “What are you doing, crying like this and breaking my heart? I am ready not only to be tied up in Jerusalem but even to die there for the sake of the Lord Jesus.” 
Horsemen charge, : swords flash, spears gleam! : Corpses are piled high, : dead bodies without number — : men stumble over them! 
Outside the room there were four similar tables, two on either side of the entrance of the north gate. 
“Discipline” means just that — discipline, and not many people are able to discipline themselves. 
Queen Esther answered, “If it please Your Majesty to grant my humble request, my wish is that I may live and that my people may live. 
And Jesus told them this parable: “One blind man cannot lead another one; if he does, both will fall into a ditch.  
They made a curtain of fine linen, woven with blue, purple, and red wool and embroidered it with figures of winged creatures. 
For a while the wicked prosper, : but then they wither like weeds, : like ears of corn that have been cut off. 
This is the assignment of guard duty to the clan of Korah and the clan of Merari. 
So I realized then that the best thing we can do is to enjoy what we have worked for. There is nothing else we can do. There is no way for us to know what will happen after we die.
Gideon took the men down to the water, and the LORD said to him, “Separate everyone who laps up the water with his tongue like a dog, from everyone who gets down on his knees to drink.” 
It used the vast authority of the first beast in its presence. It forced the earth and all who live on it to worship the first beast, whose wound had healed. 
Joshua kept his spear pointed at Ai and did not put it down until every person there had been killed. The whole population of Ai was killed that day — 12,000 men and women. 
and they would see that his face was shining. Then he would put the veil back on until the next time he went to speak to the LORD.
So life came to mean nothing to me, because everything in it had brought me nothing but trouble. It had all been useless; I had been chasing the wind. 
“What has happened to your loyalty to your friend David?” Absalom asked him. “Why didn't you go with him?” 
Hungry and thirsty, they cry to their mothers; : They fall in the streets as though they were wounded, : And slowly die in their mothers' arms. 
But they did not listen or obey. Instead, everyone continued to be as stubborn and evil as ever. I had commanded them to keep the covenant, but they refused. So I brought on them all the punishments described in it.” 
Human wisdom, brilliance, insight — they are of no help if the LORD is against you. 
and hand it over to the apostles; and the money was distributed to each one according to his need. 
So Moses wrote down God's Law and gave it to the levitical priests, who were in charge of the LORD's Covenant Box, and to the leaders of Israel. 
So then, those who do not do the good they know they should do are guilty of sin.
Then his people believed his promises : and sang praises to him. 
Anyone who is caught will be stabbed to death. 
But in the seventh year let it rest, and do not harvest anything that grows on it. The poor may eat what grows there, and the wild animals can have what is left. Do the same with your vineyards and your olive trees. 
The LORD said to Moses, 
Your lips are like a scarlet ribbon; : how lovely they are when you speak. : Your cheeks glow behind your veil. 
I will sing to the LORD all my life; : as long as I live I will sing praises to my God. 
Do not have intercourse with the daughter or granddaughter of a woman with whom you have had intercourse; they may be related to you, and that would be incest. 
Between three and six o'clock in the morning Jesus came to the disciples, walking on the water. 
The two kings, dressed in their royal robes, were sitting on their thrones at the threshing place just outside the gate of Samaria, and all the prophets were prophesying in front of them. 
Yet you are still arrogant and refuse to let my people go. 
I have observed all his laws; : I have not disobeyed his commands. 
for example, if he returns the security he took for a loan or gives back what he stole — if he stops sinning and follows the laws that give life, he will not die, but live. 
I brought them to the land I had promised to give them. When they saw the high hills and green trees, they offered sacrifices at all of them. They made me angry by the sacrifices they burnt and by the wine they brought as offerings. 
All the kings, except David, Hezekiah, and Josiah, were terrible sinners, because they abandoned the Law of the Most High to the very end of the kingdom.  
Children despise me and laugh when they see me. 
Jesus looked straight at them and answered, “This is impossible for human beings, but not for God; everything is possible for God.” 
Then if anyone still insists on prophesying, his own father and mother will tell him that he must be put to death, because he claimed to speak the LORD's word, but spoke lies instead. When he prophesies, his own father and mother will stab him to death. 
It will be like someone who runs from a lion and meets a bear! Or like someone who comes home and puts his hand on the wall — only to be bitten by a snake! 
The old man noticed the traveller in the city square and asked him, “Where do you come from? Where are you going?” 
The people of Israel had already conquered and occupied the land east of the Jordan, from the Arnon Valley up the Jordan Valley and as far north as Mount Hermon. They defeated two kings. 
Call out, Job. See if anyone answers. : Is there any angel to whom you can turn? 
In all things you yourself must be an example of good behaviour. Be sincere and serious in your teaching. 
Dear Theophilus: : In my first book I wrote about all the things that Jesus did and taught from the time he began his work 
The man answered, “What a strange thing that is! You do not know where he comes from, but he cured me of my blindness! 
Praise the LORD's glorious name; : bring an offering and come into his Temple. : Bow down before the Holy One when he appears; 
You have put us to the test, God; : as silver is purified by fire : so you have tested us. 
They will all be afraid; : they will think about what God has done : and tell about his deeds. 
And so wives must submit completely to their husbands just as the church submits itself to Christ. 
the magnificent priestly garments for Aaron and his sons to use when they serve as priests, 
“Israel, remember this! The LORD — and the LORD alone — is our God.  
Anger and a hot temper are horrible things, but sinners have both.
and died at the age of 910. 
Don't promise to be responsible for someone else's debts. 
If it is cold, two can sleep together and stay warm, but how can you keep warm by yourself? 
But I am like an olive tree growing in the house of God; : I trust in his constant love for ever and ever. 
The LORD says, “The people of Judah have sinned again and again, and for this I will certainly punish them. They have despised my teachings and have not kept my commands. They have been led astray by the same false gods that their ancestors served. 
I am ready to state my case, : because I know I am in the right. 
I was like a trusting lamb taken out to be killed, and I did not know that it was against me that they were planning evil things. They were saying, “Let's chop down the tree while it is still healthy; let's kill him so that no one will remember him any more.” 
All riches and wealth come from you; you rule everything by your strength and power; and you are able to make anyone great and strong. 
But this is what I have against you: you do not love me now as you did at first.  
But you people! You are stubborn and rebellious; you have turned aside and left me. 
Listen to what the LORD says about the king who rules the kingdom that David ruled and about the people of this city, that is, your relatives who were not taken away as prisoners with you. 
But listen to what I say to you and to the people. 
No longer, then, do we judge anyone by human standards. Even if at one time we judged Christ according to human standards, we no longer do so. 
From the days of our ancestors until now, we, your people, have sinned greatly. Because of our sins we, our kings, and our priests have fallen into the hands of foreign kings, and we have been slaughtered, robbed, and carried away as prisoners. We have been totally disgraced, as we still are today. 
On the seventh day you must wash your clothes; then you will be ritually clean and will be permitted to enter the camp.” 
After King Jehoiakim had burnt the scroll that I had dictated to Baruch, the LORD told me 
He knows what he is doing! He sends disaster. He carries out his threats to punish evil men and those who protect them. 
And the following tribes will stand on Mount Ebal when the curses are pronounced: Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali. 
If the Egyptians refuse to celebrate the Festival of Shelters, then they will be struck by the same disease that the LORD will send on every nation that refuses to go. 
everyone welcomed them : just as farmers welcome rain in spring. 
Jesus answered, “I have always spoken publicly to everyone; all my teaching was done in the synagogues and in the Temple, where all the people come together. I have never said anything in secret.  
For since a church leader is in charge of God's work, he should be blameless. He must not be arrogant or quick-tempered, or a drunkard or violent or greedy for money. 
Then the LORD said to Moses, “I will send only one more punishment on the king of Egypt and his people. After that he will let you leave. In fact, he will drive all of you out of here. 
Surely you know that from ancient times, : when human beings were first placed on earth, 
Friends mean well, even when they hurt you. But when an enemy puts an arm round your shoulder — watch out! 
and in him all peoples will put their hope.” 
Sing hymns of praise to the LORD; : play music on the harp to our God. 
On the seventh day they got up at daybreak and marched seven times round the city in the same way — this was the only day that they marched round it seven times. 
There will be no way for them to escape from this time of trouble. : The land of the tribes of Zebulun and Naphtali was once disgraced, but the future will bring honour to this region, from the Mediterranean eastwards to the land on the other side of the Jordan, and even to Galilee itself, where the foreigners live. 
The LORD will argue their case for them and threaten the life of anyone who threatens theirs. 
Then he said to his Ethiopian slave, “Go and tell the king what you have seen.” The slave bowed and ran off. 
But the people who live there are powerful, and their cities are very large and well fortified. Even worse, we saw the descendants of the giants there. 
At the place where they spent the night, one of them opened his sack to feed his donkey and found his money at the top of the sack. 
My people sowed wheat, but gathered weeds; : they have worked hard, but got nothing for it. : Because of my fierce anger : their crops have failed.” 
For I am not ashamed, even if I have boasted somewhat too much about the authority that the Lord has given us — authority to build you up, not to tear you down. 
In the field the mother deer : abandons her newborn fawn : because there is no grass. 
We will not return to our homes until all the other Israelites have taken possession of the land assigned to them. 
I lie down and sleep, : and all night long the LORD protects me. 
You should not use outward aids to make yourselves beautiful, such as the way you do your hair, or the jewellery you put on, or the dresses you wear. 
The hole for the head was reinforced with a woven binding to keep it from tearing. 
“She sank deeper and deeper in her immorality. She was attracted by the images of high Babylonian officials carved into the wall and painted bright red, with sashes round their waists and fancy turbans on their heads. 
Yet Elijah was not sent to anyone in Israel, but only to a widow living in Zarephath in the territory of Sidon.  
As I lie in bed, I remember you; : all night long I think of you, 
Saul defeated the Amalekites, fighting all the way from Havilah to Shur, east of Egypt; 
His tail stands up like a cedar, : and the muscles in his legs are strong. 
Let them live, but they will have to cut wood and carry water for us.” This was what the leaders suggested. 
He said, “If you will obey me completely by doing what I consider right and by keeping my commands, I will not punish you with any of the diseases that I brought on the Egyptians. I am the LORD, the one who heals you.” 
Then Elijah stretched himself out on the boy three times and prayed, “O LORD my God, restore this child to life!” 
This happened at Meribah, where the people of Israel complained against the LORD and where he showed them that he was holy. 
But the men who had gone with Caleb said, “No, we are not strong enough to attack them; the people there are more powerful than we are.” 
Egypt runs away, hissing like a snake, : as the enemy's army approaches. : They attack her with axes, : like men cutting down trees 
Ishbosheth had two officers who were leaders of raiding parties, Baanah and Rechab, sons of Rimmon, from Beeroth in the tribe of Benjamin. (Beeroth is counted as part of Benjamin. 
Solomon built up a force of 1,400 chariots and 12,000 cavalry horses. Some of them he kept in Jerusalem and the rest he stationed in various other cities. 
From the territory of Issachar they received four cities: Kishion, Daberath, 
You hide them in the safety of your presence : from the plots of others; : in a safe shelter you hide them : from the insults of their enemies. 
(Pure gold is found there and also rare perfume and precious stones.) 
I tell you, he will judge in their favour and do it quickly. But will the Son of Man find faith on earth when he comes?” 
When Jeroboam son of Nebat, who had gone to Egypt to escape from King Solomon, heard this news, he returned from Egypt. 
You are so rich in all you have: in faith, speech, and knowledge, in your eagerness to help and in your love for us. And so we want you to be generous also in this service of love. 
And if Christ has not been raised, then your faith is a delusion and you are still lost in your sins. 
“Go through the whole city of Jerusalem and put a mark on the forehead of everyone who is distressed and troubled because of all the disgusting things being done in the city.” 
If he needs you, he will trick you with his smiles and cheerful, kindly words. “Do you need anything?” he will ask. 
The pillar of cloud was always in front of the people during the day, and the pillar of fire at night.
If seven lives are taken to pay for killing Cain, : 77 will be taken if anyone kills me.” 
When they went back into the house, the disciples asked Jesus about this matter. 
To be wise you must first have reverence for the LORD. If you know the Holy One, you have understanding. 
Sheba passed through the territory of all the tribes of Israel and came to the city of Abel Beth Maacah, and all the members of the clan of Bikri assembled and followed him into the city. 
I wish that a guard could be placed at my mouth, that my lips could be wisely sealed. It would keep me from making mistakes and prevent me from destroying myself with my own tongue!
“Good for you, Simon son of John!” answered Jesus. “For this truth did not come to you from any human being, but it was given to you directly by my Father in heaven.  
That is how the property which had belonged to Ephron at Machpelah, east of Mamre, became Abraham's. It included the field, the cave which was in it, and all the trees in the field up to the edge of the property. 
The High Priest Ananias ordered those who were standing close to Paul to strike him on the mouth. 
“Tell the Israelites to make an offering to me. Receive whatever offerings anyone wishes to give. 
he led his people through it; : his love is eternal; 
And God, our source of peace, will soon crush Satan under your feet. : The grace of our Lord Jesus be with you. 
make certain that you do not forget the LORD who rescued you from Egypt, where you were slaves. 
When you find it, you are so happy that you put it on your shoulders  
and command them to take twelve stones out of the middle of the Jordan, from the very place where the priests were standing. Tell them to carry these stones with them and to put them down where you camp tonight.” 
They complained to Moses and said, “Give us water to drink.” : Moses answered, “Why are you complaining? Why are you putting the LORD to the test?” 
Everything they have saved is destroyed; : a fire not lit by human hands : burns them and all their families. 
The rich man answered, ‘That is not enough, father Abraham! But if someone were to rise from death and go to them, then they would turn from their sins.’  
You will be like a beautiful crown for the LORD. 
Wisdom, understanding, knowledge of the Law, love, and the doing of good deeds — all these come from the Lord. 
Hathach did this, 
Then the Wicked One will be revealed, but when the Lord Jesus comes, he will kill him with the breath from his mouth and destroy him with his dazzling presence. 
The Sovereign LORD Almighty has given this solemn warning: “I hate the pride of the people of Israel; I despise their luxurious mansions. I will give their capital city and everything in it to the enemy.” 
Death will come like a cruel messenger to wicked people who are always stirring up trouble. 
The LORD punished the people of Ashdod severely and terrified them. He punished them and the people in the surrounding territory by causing them to have tumours.  
“I assure you that people can be forgiven all their sins and all the evil things they may say.    
What the wise say brings them honour, but fools are destroyed by their own words. 
and bring it to the Aaronite priests. The officiating priest shall take a handful of the flour and oil and all of the incense and burn it on the altar as a token that it has all been offered to the LORD. The smell of this food offering is pleasing to the LORD. 
Jesus sent off Peter and John with these instructions: “Go and get the Passover meal ready for us to eat.” 
“You put aside God's command and obey human teachings.” 
But not a single hair from your heads will be lost.  
May God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peace. 
Then King Hezekiah asked, “What is the sign to prove that I will be able to go to the Temple?” 
From the beginning I predicted the outcome; : long ago I foretold what would happen. : I said that my plans would never fail, : that I would do everything I intended to do. 
“Do not be afraid, city of Zion! : Here comes your king, : riding on a young donkey.” 
and said, “Sir, have mercy on my son! He is an epileptic and has such terrible fits that he often falls in the fire or into water. 
Eltolad, Chesil, Hormah, 
The people who lived there were powerless; they were frightened and stunned. They were like grass in a field or weeds growing on a roof when the hot east wind blasts them. 
And Cain went away from the LORD's presence and lived in a land called “Wandering”, which is east of Eden. 
I, your Lord and Teacher, have just washed your feet. You, then, should wash one another's feet.  
Let those who live in distant lands : give praise and glory to the LORD! 
But he shall take its skin, all its flesh, its head, its legs, and its internal organs including the intestines, 
I will treat his family as I did the families of King Jeroboam of Israel and of King Baasha of Israel. 
“The High Priest has had the anointing oil poured on his head and has been consecrated to wear the priestly garments, so he must not leave his hair uncombed or tear his clothes to show that he is in mourning. 
When he was full-grown, : he prowled with the other lions. : He too learnt to hunt and eat people. 
In the same way, when you see all these things, you will know that the time is near, ready to begin.  
The merchants say to her, “All the good things you longed to own have disappeared, and all your wealth and glamour are gone, and you will never find them again!” 
If they fall, they will not stay down, : because the LORD will help them up. 
Nathan answered, “Do whatever you have in mind, because the LORD is with you.” 
Merari had two sons, Mahli and Mushi. Mahli also had two sons, Eleazar and Kish, 
The wicked are proud of their evil desires; : the greedy curse and reject the LORD. 
At dawn the next day David attacked them and fought until evening. Except for 400 young men who mounted camels and got away, none of them escaped. 
The priests Zadok and Abiathar will be there; tell them everything you hear in the king's palace. 
Agrippa said to Festus, “I would like to hear this man myself.” : “You will hear him tomorrow,” Festus answered. 
The sun rises with its blazing heat and burns the plant; its flower falls off, and its beauty is destroyed. In the same way the rich will be destroyed while they go about their business. 
The angel said to her, “Don't be afraid, Mary; God has been gracious to you. 
She will be your crowning glory.” 
The LORD hates people who use dishonest scales and weights. 
They occupied all the Amorite territory from the Arnon in the south to the Jabbok in the north and from the desert on the east to the Jordan on the west. 
So Raguel gave Tobias his bride Sarah without further delay. He also gave Tobias half of everything he owned: slaves, cattle, sheep, donkeys, camels, clothes, money and furniture. 
He said, “Prophesy to the bones. Tell these dry bones to listen to the word of the LORD. 
Samuel called the people together for a religious gathering at Mizpah 
Day after day they met as a group in the Temple, and they had their meals together in their homes, eating with glad and humble hearts, 
When the kings who were subject to Hadadezer realized that they had been defeated by Israel, they made peace with David and became his subjects. The Syrians were never again willing to help the Ammonites.
For you will be a witness for him to tell everyone what you have seen and heard. 
The LORD sent a prophet to rescue the people of Israel from slavery in Egypt and to take care of them. 
The priest shall examine him, and if the spot seems to be deeper than the surrounding skin and the hairs in it have turned white, he shall pronounce him unclean. It is a dreaded skin disease that has started in the boil. 
Three days later Jeroboam and all the people returned to King Rehoboam, as he had instructed them. 
He told us how he had seen an angel standing in his house, who said to him, ‘Send someone to Joppa for a man whose full name is Simon Peter. 
When all the leading men in the fort at Shechem heard about this, they sought safety in the stronghold of the temple of Baal-of-the-Covenant. 
One day, after they had finished their meal in the house of the LORD at Shiloh, Hannah got up. She was deeply distressed, and she cried bitterly as she prayed to the LORD. Meanwhile, Eli the priest was sitting in his place by the door. 
Some of his soldiers will desecrate the Temple. They will stop the daily sacrifices and set up The Awful Horror.  
(Oholibah, you wanted to repeat the immorality you were guilty of as a young woman in Egypt, where men played with your breasts and you lost your virginity.) 
One day when he was worshipping in the temple of his god Nisroch, two of his sons, Adrammelech and Sharezer, killed him with their swords and then escaped to the land of Ararat. Another of his sons, Esarhaddon, succeeded him as emperor.
Of the most sacred offerings not burnt on the altar, the following belong to you: the grain offerings, the sin offerings, and the repayment offerings. Everything that is presented to me as a sacred offering belongs to you and your sons. 
But when God was about to send his firstborn Son into the world, he said: : “All God's angels must worship him.” 
Seventy Israelite leaders were there, including Jaazaniah son of Shaphan. Each one was holding an incense burner, and smoke was rising from the incense. 
You did not choose me; I chose you and appointed you to go and bear much fruit, the kind of fruit that endures. And so the Father will give you whatever you ask of him in my name.  
Never let go of loyalty and faithfulness. Tie them round your neck; write them on your heart. 
So when you sell land to your fellow-Israelite or buy land from him, do not deal unfairly. 
“Nor are you to ask, Who will go down into the world below?” (that is, to bring Christ up from death). 
if it is to serve, we should serve; if it is to teach, we should teach; 
Like a lily among thorns : is my darling among women. 
If the person wishes to buy it back, he must pay the price plus an additional twenty per cent. 
The robe that goes under the ephod was made entirely of blue wool. 
Amalekites live in the southern part of the land; Hittites, Jebusites, and Amorites live in the hill country; and Canaanites live by the Mediterranean Sea and along the River Jordan.” 
In addition, Ruth the Moabite, Mahlon's widow, becomes my wife. This will keep the property in the dead man's family, and his family line will continue among his people and in his town. You are witnesses to this today.” 
In the same way the chief priests and the teachers of the Law and the elders jeered at him
But you will say, “Yes, but the branches were broken off to make room for me.” 
The LORD says, “When I first found Israel, it was like finding grapes growing in the desert. When I first saw your ancestors, it was like seeing the first ripe figs of the season. But when they came to Mount Peor, they began to worship Baal, and soon became as disgusting as the gods they loved. 
With them went every kind of animal, domestic and wild, large and small, and every kind of bird. 
I was determined to learn the difference between knowledge and foolishness, wisdom and madness. But I found out that I might as well be chasing the wind. 
“Come on,” they replied. “Let's attack Laish. We saw the land, and it's very good. Don't stay here doing nothing; hurry! Go on in and take it over! 
If we are not faithful, : he remains faithful, : because he cannot be false to himself.” 
The people say, “Let's return to the LORD! He has hurt us, but he will be sure to heal us; he has wounded us, but he will bandage our wounds, won't he? 
If foreigners bring corn or anything else to sell to us on the Sabbath or on any other holy day, we will not buy from them. : Every seventh year we will not farm the land, and we will cancel all debts. 
By his death on the cross Christ destroyed their enmity; by means of the cross he united both races into one body and brought them back to God. 
So discipline your son and give him work to do, or else he will be an embarrassment to you. 
Abram was 86 years old at the time.
“I myself thought that I should do everything I could against the cause of Jesus of Nazareth. 
she called to her house servants and said, “Look at this! This Hebrew that my husband brought to the house is insulting us. He came into my room and tried to rape me, but I screamed as loud as I could. 
God said to me, “Mortal man, prophesy to the wind. Tell the wind that the Sovereign LORD commands it to come from every direction, to breathe into these dead bodies, and to bring them back to life.” 
He sank to his knees, : fell down and lay still at her feet. : At her feet he sank to his knees and fell; : he fell to the ground, dead. 
But if he is a bad servant, he will tell himself that his master will not come back for a long time,  
Sin offerings are required in the following cases. : If someone is officially summoned to give evidence in court and does not give information about something he has seen or heard, he must suffer the consequences. 
To that Isaiah replied, “Listen, now, descendants of King David. It's bad enough for you to wear out the patience of people — must you wear out God's patience too? 
and the joyful music of their harps and drums has ceased. 
“Are any of my officials in the palace?” the king asked. : Now Haman had just entered the courtyard; he had come to ask the king to have Mordecai hanged on the gallows that was now ready. 
When they came to the place called “The Skull”, they crucified Jesus there, and the two criminals, one on his right and the other on his left. 
But nothing I say helps, : and being silent does not calm my pain. 
He preached about the Kingdom of God and taught about the Lord Jesus Christ, speaking with all boldness and freedom.
he killed famous kings; : his love is eternal; 
While Abimelech and his group hurried forward to guard the city gate, the other two companies attacked the people in the fields and killed them all. 
True and just are his judgements! He has condemned the prostitute who was corrupting the earth with her immorality. God has punished her because she killed his servants.” 
For whoever wants to save his own life will lose it; but whoever loses his life for me and for the gospel will save it.  
You are to eat it quickly, for you are to be dressed for travel, with your sandals on your feet and your stick in your hand. It is the Passover Festival to honour me, the LORD. 
If anyone does survive and save his children, look at them when they come to you. See how evil they are, and be convinced that the punishment I am bringing on Jerusalem is justified; 
Benaiah son of Jehoiada from Kabzeel was a famous soldier; he did many brave deeds, including killing two great Moabite warriors. He once went down into a pit on a snowy day and killed a lion. 
But then they said to each other, “We shouldn't be doing this! We have good news and we shouldn't keep it to ourselves. If we wait until morning to tell it, we are sure to be punished. Let's go at once and tell the king's officers!” 
Just as he arrived at the gate of the town, a funeral procession was coming out. The dead man was the only son of a woman who was a widow, and a large crowd from the town was with her. 
While Samuel was offering the sacrifice, the Philistines moved forward to attack; but just then the LORD thundered from heaven against them. They became completely confused and fled in panic. 
That is why the poets sing, : “Come to Heshbon, to King Sihon's city! : We want to see it rebuilt and restored. 
The descendants of Moses' father-in-law, the Kenite, went on with the people of Judah from Jericho, the city of palm trees, into the barren country south of Arad in Judah. There they settled among the Amalekites.  
The LORD, the God of Israel, has sworn, “I will never forget their evil deeds. 
But these people act by instinct, like wild animals born to be captured and killed; they attack with insults anything they do not understand. They will be destroyed like wild animals, 
The LORD will write a list of the peoples : and include them all as citizens of Jerusalem. 
For you gladly tolerate anyone who comes to you and preaches a different Jesus, not the one we preached; and you accept a spirit and a gospel completely different from the Spirit and the gospel you received from us! 
then Leah and her children came, and last of all Joseph and Rachel came and bowed down. 
The LORD told Balaam what to say and sent him back to Balak to give him his message. 
Shuppim and Huppim also belonged to this tribe. : Dan had one son, Hushim. 
I will hold power over nations and peoples; 
This southern border ran from the south end of the Dead Sea, 
Start the music and beat the tambourines; : play pleasant music on the harps and the lyres. 
King Solomon and all the people of Israel assembled in front of the Covenant Box and sacrificed a large number of sheep and cattle — too many to count. 
He defied the Israelites, and Jonathan, the son of David's brother Shammah, killed him. 
The Amalekites came and attacked the Israelites at Rephidim. 
Do not, however, go against the truth, and remember that you do not know everything. 
They answered the king in Aramaic, “May Your Majesty live for ever! Tell us your dream, and we will explain it to you.” 
The LORD will take revenge and punish them; : the time will come when they will fall; : the day of their doom is near. 
Don't think that no one can exercise authority over you; if you do, the Lord is certain to punish you. 
But when you give them breath, they are created; : you give new life to the earth. 
You saved me from a rebellious people : and made me ruler over the nations; : people I did not know have now become my subjects. 
These people really did not belong to our fellowship, and that is why they left us; if they had belonged to our fellowship, they would have stayed with us. But they left so that it might be clear that none of them really belonged to us. 
“What things?” he asked. : “The things that happened to Jesus of Nazareth,” they answered. “This man was a prophet and was considered by God and by all the people to be powerful in everything he said and did. 
At dawn the murderer gets up : and goes out to kill the poor, : and at night he steals. 
Babylon, you will be destroyed. : Happy are those who pay you back : for what you have done to us — 
“Suppose a man marries a woman and later he decides he doesn't want her. 
The rest of the oil that is in his palm he shall put on the person's head and in this way perform the ritual of purification. 
Solomon is welcome to his thousand coins, : and the farmers to 200 as their share; : I have a vineyard of my own! 
Then the second angel blew his trumpet. Something that looked like a huge mountain on fire was thrown into the sea. A third of the sea was turned into blood, 
These are the twelve tribes of Israel, and this is what their father said as he spoke a suitable word of farewell to each son. 
The fighting was heavy round Saul, and he himself was hit by enemy arrows and badly wounded. 
The LORD said to Moses, “Come up the mountain to me, you and Aaron, Nadab, Abihu, and seventy of the leaders of Israel; and while you are still some distance away, bow down in worship. 
who will examine him. If there is a white sore on his skin which turns the hairs white and is full of pus, 
for the people of Israel. Whoever offers a fellowship offering must bring part of it as a special gift to the LORD, 
“If the men of Gad and Reuben cross the Jordan ready for battle at the LORD's command and if with their help you are able to conquer the land, then give them the land of Gilead as their property. 
“Ask, and you will receive; seek, and you will find; knock, and the door will be opened to you.  
In the past you did not know God, and so you were slaves of beings who are not gods. 
A thief is better than a habitual liar, but both are headed for ruin. 
The Lord's wisdom and power are great and he sees everything. 
Then the man decided to go after her and try to persuade her to return to him. He took his servant and two donkeys with him. The woman showed the Levite into the house, and when her father saw him, he gave him a warm welcome. 
When Rebecca saw Isaac, she got down from her camel 
Then Abraham planted a tamarisk tree in Beersheba and worshipped the LORD, the Everlasting God. 
This is the clear difference between God's children and the Devil's children: all who do not do what is right or do not love others are not God's children. 
You are all round me on every side; : you protect me with your power. 
In the vision the Spirit of God lifted me up and brought me back to the exiles in Babylonia. Then the vision faded, 
Then Zipporah, his wife, took a sharp stone, cut off the foreskin of her son, and touched Moses' feet with it. Because of the rite of circumcision she said to Moses, “You are a husband of blood to me.” And so the LORD spared Moses' life. 
The people in the towns where Jesus had performed most of his miracles did not turn from their sins, so he reproached those towns. 
I recognize my faults; : I am always conscious of my sins. 
Indeed, I tell you, the master will put that servant in charge of all his property.  
on his way there he had to go through Samaria. 
because any altar you build for the LORD your God must be made of uncut stones. There you are to offer the sacrifices that are to be burnt, 
Why won't God give me what I ask? : Why won't he answer my prayer? 
God is king over all the world; : praise him with songs! 
“I command all the treasury officials in the province of West Euphrates to provide promptly for Ezra, the priest and scholar in the Law of the God of Heaven, everything he asks you for, 
Then and there the LORD made a covenant with Abram. He said, “I promise to give your descendants all this land from the border of Egypt to the River Euphrates, 
For seven years he will not have a human mind, but the mind of an animal. 
You boast about having God's law — but do you bring shame on God by breaking his law? 
The following men were the heads of their clans: : Meshobab, Jamlech, Joshah son of Amaziah, Joel, : Jehu (the son of Joshibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel), : Elioenai, Jaakobah, Jeshohaiah, Asaiah, Adiel, Jesimiel, Benaiah, : Ziza (the son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, a descendant of Jedaiah, Shimri, and Shemaiah). : Because their families continued to grow, 
I am going to do this because Solomon has rejected me and has worshipped foreign gods: Astarte, the goddess of Sidon; Chemosh, the god of Moab; and Molech, the god of Ammon. Solomon has disobeyed me; he has done wrong, and has not kept my laws and commands as his father David did. 
Also offer one male goat as a sin offering. Offer these in addition to the daily burnt offering with its grain offering and wine offering. 
Don't you fence in your property? Don't you lock up your money? 
Then all your troubles will fade from your memory, : like floods that are past and remembered no more. 
In front of each of the guardrooms there was a low wall fifty centimetres high and fifty centimetres thick. (The rooms were three metres square.) 
Ever since that time the people of the northern kingdom of Israel have been in rebellion against the dynasty of David. 
The wicked bring on themselves the suffering they try to cause good people. 
Now, concerning what you wrote about the gifts from the Holy Spirit. : I want you to know the truth about them, my brothers and sisters. 
He shall examine it again on the seventh day, and if the mildew has spread, the object is unclean. 
Find out exactly the places where he hides, and be sure to bring back a report to me straight away. Then I will go with you, and if he is still in the region, I will hunt him down, even if I have to search the whole land of Judah.” 
So put on sackcloth, and weep and wail : because the fierce anger of the LORD : has not turned away from Judah. 
The two then explained to them what had happened on the road, and how they had recognized the Lord when he broke the bread. 
So tell the Israelites that I say to them, ‘I am the LORD; I will rescue you and set you free from your slavery to the Egyptians. I will raise my mighty arm to bring terrible punishment upon them, and I will save you. 
and Ahira son of Enan was in command of the tribe of Naphtali. 
Then Joshua said to his officers, “Don't be afraid or discouraged. Be determined and confident because this is what the LORD is going to do to all your enemies.” 
He rebuilt the pagan places of worship that his father Hezekiah had destroyed; he built altars for the worship of Baal and made an image of the goddess Asherah, as King Ahab of Israel had done. Manasseh also worshipped the stars. 
But she was dying, and as she breathed her last, she named her son Benoni, but his father named him Benjamin. 
I assure you that whoever tells this hill to get up and throw itself in the sea and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says will happen, it will be done for him.  
The LORD told Moses 
He wrote: “Put Uriah in the front line, where the fighting is heaviest, then retreat and let him be killed.” 
All the animals and birds went out of the boat in groups of their own kind. 
Then he found the jawbone of a donkey that had recently died. He bent down and picked it up, and killed a thousand men with it. 
Now Amaziah, you have defeated the Edomites, and you are filled with pride. Be satisfied with your fame and stay at home. Why stir up trouble that will only bring disaster on you and your people?” 
If a person is ashamed of me and of my teaching in this godless and wicked day, then the Son of Man will be ashamed of him when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.”
At that time men were put in charge of the storerooms where contributions for the Temple were kept, including the tithes and the first corn and fruit that ripened each year. These men were responsible for collecting from the farms near the various cities the contributions for the priests and the Levites which the Law required. All the people of Judah were pleased with the priests and the Levites, 
and will punish them. They have escaped one fire, but now fire will burn them up. When I punish them, you will know that I am the LORD. 
When David reached the top of the hill, where there was a place of worship, his trusted friend Hushai the Archite met him with his clothes torn and with earth on his head. 
I took care of you in a dry, desert land. 
Worrying about business will keep you from sleeping just as surely as a serious illness does. 
The LORD Almighty is going to send disease to punish those who are now well fed. In their bodies there will be a fire that burns and burns. 
When I demonstrate to the nations the holiness of my great name — the name you disgraced among them — then they will know that I am the LORD. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken. I will use you to show the nations that I am holy. 
The nations are nothing at all to him. 
Jesus said to Peter, “Put your sword back in its place! Do you think that I will not drink the cup of suffering which my Father has given me?” 
“After you have threshed all your corn and pressed all your grapes, celebrate the Festival of Shelters for seven days. 
but it had already killed 24,000 people. 
When Eber was 34 years old, he had a son, Peleg; 
So Lot chose the whole Jordan Valley for himself and moved away towards the east. That is how the two men parted. 
The king said to him, “I am the king — and no one in all Egypt shall so much as lift a hand or a foot without your permission.” 
God gave to Heman, the king's prophet, these fourteen sons and also three daughters, as he had promised, in order to give power to Heman. 
“ ‘Do not accuse anyone falsely. 
When that time comes, people will use your story as an example of disaster, and they will sing this song of despair about your experience: : We are completely ruined! : The LORD has taken our land away : And given it to those who took us captive.” 
He said to his servant, “Go and look towards the sea.” : The servant went and returned, saying, “I didn't see anything.” Seven times in all Elijah told him to go and look. 
So God created human beings, making them to be like himself. He created them male and female, 
He promised through his holy prophets long ago 
“It is just as I said,” Joseph answered. “You are spies. 
If you want to be happy, be kind to the poor; it is a sin to despise anyone. 
While Jacob was still talking to them, Rachel arrived with the flock. 
Then Daniel's enemies came back to the king and said to him, “Your Majesty knows that according to the laws of the Medes and Persians no order which the king issues can be changed.” 
The LORD said to Moses, “Tell Aaron to hold out his stick over the rivers, the canals, and the pools, and make frogs come up and cover the land of Egypt.” 
A man can hire a prostitute for the price of a loaf of bread, but adultery will cost him all he has. 
“I will lead my blind people : by roads they have never travelled. : I will turn their darkness into light : and make rough country smooth before them. : These are my promises, : and I will keep them without fail. 
The rest of the Israelite tribes gathered 400,000 trained soldiers. 
Then Deborah said to Barak, “Go! The LORD is leading you! Today he has given you victory over Sisera.” So Barak went down from Mount Tabor with his 10,000 men. 
All night Joshua and his army marched from Gilgal to Gibeon, and they made a surprise attack on the Amorites. 
I ask you, God, to let me have two things before I die
“Make the people sit down,” Jesus told them. (There was a lot of grass there.) So all the people sat down; there were about 5,000 men.  
and John has told all that he has seen. This is his report concerning the message from God and the truth revealed by Jesus Christ. 
Go to the LORD for help; : and worship him continually. 
No sufferings are worse than the sufferings caused by people who hate you. No revenge is worse than revenge taken by an enemy. 
Finally, hearing good news from a distant land is like a drink of cold water when you are dry and thirsty. 
The following temple guards were in charge of guarding the storerooms by the gates to the Temple: Mattaniah, Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, and Akkub. 
I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Helper, who will stay with you for ever.  
My righteous people, however, will believe and live; : but if any of them turns back, : I will not be pleased with him.” 
But the people of Judah did not obey the LORD, and Manasseh led them to commit even greater sins than those committed by the nations whom the LORD had driven out of the land as his people advanced. 
Animals, don't be afraid. : The pastures are green; : the trees bear their fruit, : and there are plenty of figs and grapes. 
But everybody in town will complain about a host who is stingy with food, and their complaints are justified. 
These people had paid no attention to any warning, but relied instead on their magical powers. But when their firstborn sons were killed, then they recognized that Israel was God's son. 
This made Abner furious. “Do you think that I would betray Saul? Do you really think I'm serving Judah?” he exclaimed. “From the very first I have been loyal to the cause of your father Saul, his brothers, and his friends, and I have saved you from being defeated by David; yet today you find fault with me about a woman! 
The earth dries up and withers; the whole world grows weak; both earth and sky decay. 
I will take action against you. I will purify you just as metal is refined, and will remove all your impurity. 
In his vision he saw the Kenites, and uttered this prophecy: : “The place where you live is secure, : Safe as a nest set high on a cliff, 
One day, as Jeroboam was travelling from Jerusalem, the prophet Ahijah, from Shiloh, met him alone on the road in the open country. 
I am only a wild flower in Sharon, : a lily in a mountain valley. 
Then he himself started out for Ramah. When he came to the large well in Secu, he asked where Samuel and David were and was told that they were at Naioth. 
All native Israelites are to do this when they present a food offering, a smell pleasing to the LORD. 
You can blow on a spark to make it glow, or you can spit on it to put it out. Either way, you do it with your mouth. 
At the end of the three years set by the king, Ashpenaz took all the young men to Nebuchadnezzar. 
When they had helped him up, Achior bowed at Judith's feet in respect. “May every family in the land of Judah praise you,” he said, “and may every nation tremble with terror when they hear your name. 
If you wait until the wind and the weather are just right, you will never sow anything and never harvest anything. 
But first he must suffer much and be rejected by the people of this day.  
Even if someone is perfect, he will be thought of as nothing without the Wisdom that comes from you. 
LORD, do good to those who are good, : to those who obey your commands. 
But the LORD Almighty shows his greatness by doing what is right, and he reveals his holiness by judging his people. 
He brought them to his holy land, : to the mountains which he himself conquered. 
He captured the territory of Hamath and Zobah 
So it is no great thing if his servants disguise themselves to look like servants of righteousness. In the end they will get exactly what their actions deserve. 
Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed
Saul's officials reported to David what Saul had said, and David was delighted with the thought of becoming the king's son-in-law. Before the day set for the wedding, 
Like long rows of palms : Or gardens beside a river, : Like aloes planted by the LORD : Or cedars beside the water. 
Surely you know that when you surrender yourselves as slaves to obey someone, you are in fact the slaves of the master you obey — either of sin, which results in death, or of obedience, which results in being put right with God. 
You know that I am not guilty, : that no one can save me from you. 
Simon Peter and another disciple followed Jesus. That other disciple was well known to the High Priest, so he went with Jesus into the courtyard of the High Priest's house, 
There they killed the surviving Amalekites, and they have lived there ever since.
Let us keep our eyes fixed on Jesus, on whom our faith depends from beginning to end. He did not give up because of the cross! On the contrary, because of the joy that was waiting for him, he thought nothing of the disgrace of dying on the cross, and he is now seated at the right-hand side of God's throne. 
That same day in the city of Ecbatana in Media, it happened that Sarah, the daughter of a man named Raguel, was insulted by one of her father's servant women. 
Their descendants included the sub-clans of Libni, Hebron, Mahli, Mushi, and Korah. Kohath was the father of Amram, 
that he finally told her the truth. “My hair has never been cut,” he said. “I have been dedicated to God as a Nazirite from the time I was born. If my hair were cut, I would lose my strength and be as weak as anybody else.” 
Offer with them all the other offerings required for the first day. 
“When your people sin against you — and there is no one who does not sin — and in your anger you let their enemies defeat them and take them as prisoners to some other land, even if that land is far away, 
When he came out, he could not speak to them, and so they knew that he had seen a vision in the Temple. Unable to say a word, he made signs to them with his hands. 
Saul was told that David had gone to Keilah, and he said, “God has put him in my power. David has trapped himself by going into a walled town with fortified gates.” 
We did not try to get praise from anyone, either from you or from others, 
Honest people hate lies, but the words of wicked people are shameful and disgraceful. 
You will tell them that their nation does not obey me, the LORD their God, or learn from their punishment. Faithfulness is dead. No longer is it even talked about. 
Then Boaz got ten of the leaders of the town and asked them to sit down there too. When they were seated, 
with three branches on it. As soon as the leaves came out, the blossoms appeared, and the grapes ripened. 
Peter asked her, “Tell me, was this the full amount you and your husband received for your property?” : “Yes,” she answered, “the full amount.” 
and you have been given full life in union with him. He is supreme over every spiritual ruler and authority. 
But you are our father, LORD. We are like clay, and you are like the potter. You created us, 
“Very well, Your Majesty,” Shimei answered. “I will do what you say.” So he lived in Jerusalem a long time. 
but instead, as a sign for our people and yours, and for the generations after us, that we do indeed worship the LORD before his sacred Tent with our offerings to be burnt and with sacrifices and fellowship offerings. This was to keep your descendants from saying that ours have nothing to do with the LORD. 
In the 39th year of the reign of King Uzziah of Judah, Menahem son of Gadi became king of Israel, and he ruled in Samaria for ten years. 
Ask the LORD to bless your plans, and you will be successful in carrying them out. 
The priests agreed to this and also agreed not to make the repairs in the Temple. 
The LORD said to Moses, “Cut two stone tablets like the first ones, and I will write on them the words that were on the first tablets, which you broke. 
Moses and Eleazar did what the LORD commanded. 
The LORD says, “I will make Jerusalem a pile of ruins, : a place where jackals live; : the cities of Judah will become a desert, : a place where no one lives.” 
LORD our God, may your blessings be with us. : Give us success in all we do!
Some will fight against the Babylonians, who will fill the houses with the corpses of those whom I am going to strike down in my anger and fury. I have turned away from this city because of the evil things that its people have done. 
When Kenan was seventy, he had a son, Mahalalel, 
to instruct the Israelites to present to God at the appointed times the required food offerings that are pleasing to him. 
Make a roof for the boat and leave a space of 44 centimetres between the roof and the sides. Build it with three decks and put a door in the side. 
The wind blows south, the wind blows north — round and round and back again. 
“But Abraham said, ‘Remember, my son, that in your lifetime you were given all the good things, while Lazarus got all the bad things. But now he is enjoying himself here, while you are in pain.  
Perhaps an angel may come to their aid — : one of God's thousands of angels, : who remind us of our duty. 
As long as Judith lived, and for many years after her death, no one dared to threaten the people of Israel.
“Fields, don't be afraid, : but be joyful and glad : because of all the LORD has done for you. 
“Make an altar out of acacia wood. It is to be square, 2.2 metres long and 2.2 metres wide, and it is to be 1.3 metres high. 
Then the official stood up and shouted in Hebrew, “Listen to what the emperor of Assyria is telling you. 
and the LORD said to Moses, 
“Now then, mortal man, tell the Israelites what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying to them. This is another way their ancestors insulted me by their unfaithfulness. 
Then he quickly called the young man who was carrying his weapons and ordered, “Draw your sword and kill me. I don't want it said that a woman killed me.” So the young man ran him through, and he died. 
Kind words are like honey — sweet to the taste and good for your health. 
those in the south wall, after Simeon, Issachar, and Zebulun; and those in the west wall are named after Gad, Asher, and Naphtali. 
By his Aramean concubine, Manasseh had two sons, Asriel and Machir. Machir was the father of Gilead. 
I will bring my people back to their land. : They will rebuild their ruined cities and live there; : they will plant vineyards and drink the wine; : they will plant gardens and eat what they grow. 
The LORD blessed the last part of Job's life even more than he had blessed the first. Job owned 14,000 sheep, 6,000 camels, 2,000 head of cattle, and 1,000 donkeys. 
It is much harder for a rich person to enter the Kingdom of God than for a camel to go through the eye of a needle.” 
Here are more of Solomon's proverbs, copied by men at the court of King Hezekiah of Judah. 
He said to another man, “Follow me.” : But that man said, “Sir, first let me go back and bury my father.” 
You oppose those who love you and support those who hate you! You have made it clear that your officers and men mean nothing to you. I can see that you would be quite happy if Absalom were alive today and all of us were dead. 
Whoever is willing to do what God wants will know whether what I teach comes from God or whether I speak on my own authority.  
When the boy reached the place where the arrow had fallen, Jonathan shouted to him, “The arrow is further on! 
When Phinehas, the son of Eleazar and grandson of Aaron the priest, saw this, he got up and left the assembly. He took a spear, 
A messenger reported to David, “The Israelites are pledging their loyalty to Absalom.” 
He gave him the turban with the gold ornament engraved with the words “Dedicated to the Lord.” It was expertly crafted, a beautiful work of art, and it was a high honour to wear it. 
The LORD says, : “Listen now, Israel, my servant, : my chosen people, the descendants of Jacob. 
Even from distant Ethiopia my scattered people will bring offerings to me. 
Some people were there who wanted to accuse Jesus of doing wrong; so they watched him closely to see whether he would heal the man on the Sabbath. 
King David said to his son Solomon, “Be confident and determined. Start the work and don't let anything stop you. The LORD God, whom I serve, will be with you. He will not abandon you, but he will stay with you until you finish the work to be done on his Temple. 
Instead, let justice flow like a stream, and righteousness like a river that never goes dry. 
the sun will be darkened, : and the moon will turn red as blood, : before the great and glorious Day of the Lord comes. 
You are praised by people everywhere, : and your fame extends over all the earth. : You rule with justice; 
He has bound me in chains; I am a prisoner with no hope of escape. 
Go to the LORD, and you will live. If you do not go, he will sweep down like fire on the people of Israel. The fire will burn up the people of Bethel, and no one will be able to put it out. 
a third of the living creatures in the sea died, and a third of the ships were destroyed. 
This is what we will do: we will draw lots and choose some men to attack Gibeah.  
Your cheeks glow behind your veil. 
If you do, you will know what it means to fear the LORD and you will succeed in learning about God. 
After this there was a battle with the Philistines at Gob, during which Sibbecai from Hushah killed a giant named Saph. 
God used this visit to Joram to bring about Ahaziah's downfall. While Ahaziah was there, he and Joram were confronted by a man named Jehu son of Nimshi, whom the LORD had chosen to destroy the dynasty of Ahab. 
The messenger answered, “Israel ran away from the Philistines; it was a terrible defeat for us! Besides that, your sons Hophni and Phinehas were killed, and God's Covenant Box was captured!” 
“But I, the LORD, am tearing down what I have built and pulling up what I have planted. I will do this to the entire earth. 
So the Pharisees said to Jesus, “Look, it is against our Law for your disciples to do that on the Sabbath!” 
You must be careful to provide everything which the God of Heaven requires for his Temple, and so make sure that he is never angry with me or with those who reign after me. 
Now listen to my words of explanation. 
Immer — 1,052 
You are treating me cruelly; : you persecute me with all your power. 
Just because he had no sons, why should our father's name disappear from Israel? Give us property among our father's relatives.” 
The Lord will not forget the kindness you show to your father; it will help you to make up for your sins. 
So tell him that I am making a covenant with him that is valid for all time to come. 
“Tell Aaron that when he puts the seven lamps on the lampstand, he should place them so that the light shines towards the front.” 
There were 300 men who scooped up water in their hands and lapped it; all the others got down on their knees to drink. 
But Jonathan had not heard his father threaten the people with a curse; so he reached out with the stick he was carrying, dipped it in a honeycomb, and ate some honey. At once he felt much better. 
‘We are not spies,’ we answered, ‘we are honest men. 
They cut off Saul's head, stripped off his armour, and sent messengers with them throughout Philistia to tell the good news to their idols and to their people. 
The LORD gave Moses the following regulations 
I thought that in the prime of life : I was going to the world of the dead, : Never to live out my life. 
and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the first to be raised from death and who is also the ruler of the kings of the world. : He loves us, and by his sacrificial death he has freed us from our sins 
According to the custom followed by the priests, he was chosen by lot to burn incense on the altar. So he went into the Temple of the Lord, 
Abraham bowed down with his face touching the ground, but he began to laugh when he thought, “Can a man have a child when he is a hundred years old? Can Sarah have a child at ninety?” 
King Solomon gave the queen of Sheba everything she asked for, besides all the other customary gifts that he had generously given her. Then she and her attendants returned to the land of Sheba. 
so I went down into the valley of the Kidron and rode along, looking at the wall. Then I returned the way I had come and went back into the city through the Valley Gate. 
They were worn out from hard work; : they would fall down, and no one would help. 
Arrogance should be punished, so that people who don't know any better can learn a lesson. If you are wise, you will learn when you are corrected. 
“If after all this you still continue to defy me and refuse to obey me, 
Instead, as the scripture says: “If your enemies are hungry, feed them; if they are thirsty, give them a drink; for by doing this you will make them burn with shame.” 
Dedicate them to yourself by means of the truth; your word is truth.  
After the Sabbath, as Sunday morning was dawning, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to look at the tomb. 
Then, after Job had prayed for his three friends, the LORD made him prosperous again and gave him twice as much as he had had before. 
The Assyrians were forced to take cover along the mountainside, where they tied Achior up and left him lying at the foot of the mountain. Then they returned to Holofernes. 
The time came for her to give birth, and she had twin sons. 
I will be his father, and he will be my son. When he does wrong, I will punish him as a father punishes his son. 
But the Day of the Lord will come like a thief. On that Day the heavens will disappear with a shrill noise, the heavenly bodies will burn up and be destroyed, and the earth with everything in it will vanish.  
But Jonadab, the son of David's brother Shammah, said, “Your Majesty, they haven't killed all your sons. Only Amnon is dead. You could tell by looking at Absalom that he had made up his mind to do this from the time that Amnon raped his sister Tamar. 
I walked through the fields and vineyards of a lazy, stupid person. 
so that all of you together may praise with one voice the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
After two years had passed, Porcius Festus succeeded Felix as governor. Felix wanted to gain favour with the Jews so he left Paul in prison.
He also gave each of them a change of clothes, but he gave Benjamin 300 pieces of silver and five changes of clothes. 
Then I took another scroll and gave it to my secretary Baruch, and he wrote down everything that I dictated. He wrote everything that had been on the first scroll and similar messages that I dictated to him.
She had been married for only seven years and was now 84 years old. She never left the Temple; day and night she worshipped God, fasting and praying. 
After the death of Abraham, God blessed his son Isaac, who lived near “The Well of the Living One who Sees Me”. 
Put them on the shoulder straps of the ephod to represent the twelve tribes of Israel. In this way Aaron will carry their names on his shoulders, so that I, the LORD, will always remember my people. 
I will always praise you : and sing hymns of thanksgiving.” : You answered my prayer, 
They will throw their gold and silver away in the streets like refuse, because neither silver nor gold can save them when the LORD pours out his fury. They cannot use it to satisfy their desires or fill their stomachs. Gold and silver led them into sin. 
from the clan of Hebron, Eliel, in charge of eighty; 
and learn to do right. See that justice is done — help those who are oppressed, give orphans their rights, and defend widows.” 
Praise him for the mighty things he has done. : Praise his supreme greatness. 
After Jesus had washed their feet, he put his outer garment back on and returned to his place at the table. “Do you understand what I have just done to you?” he asked. 
To be accepted, it must be a male without any defects. 
Jehu ordered his men, “Take them alive!” They seized them, and he put them to death near a pit there. There were 42 people in all, and not one of them was left alive. 
“I will take firm control of you and make you obey my covenant. 
When they arrived in Antioch, they gathered the people of the church together and told them about all that God had done with them and how he had opened the way for the Gentiles to believe. 
I am your slave, as was my mother before me. I am only human. I am not strong, and my life will be short. I have little understanding of the Law or of how to apply it. 
God replied to Solomon, “You have made the right choice. Instead of asking for wealth or treasure or fame or the death of your enemies or even for long life for yourself, you have asked for wisdom and knowledge so that you can rule my people, over whom I have made you king. 
If he lives to old age, he will die famous, but if he is laid to rest before he is famous, he will be content. 
“King of Babylonia, bright morning star, you have fallen from heaven! In the past you conquered nations, but now you have been thrown to the ground. 
so that we might be holy and righteous before him : all the days of our life. 
He surrounded the Midianites, burnt down their tents, and slaughtered their sheep. 
God corrects people by sending sickness : and filling their bodies with pain. 
They made upright frames of acacia wood for the Tent. 
For we know that when this tent we live in — our body here on earth — is torn down, God will have a house in heaven for us to live in, a home he himself has made, which will last for ever. 
Your people worship at the altars and the symbols that have been set up for the goddess Asherah by every green tree, on the hilltops 
Well, then, you should have deposited my money in the bank, and I would have received it all back with interest when I returned.  
Then I saw the angel who had been speaking to me step forward, and another angel came to meet him. 
And now I am coming to you, and I say these things in the world so that they might have my joy in their hearts in all its fullness.  
Then Joshua sent two spies from the camp at Acacia with orders to go and secretly explore the land of Canaan, especially the city of Jericho. When they came to the city, they went to spend the night in the house of a prostitute named Rahab. 
I will not drive them out within one year; if I did, the land would become deserted, and the wild animals would be too many for you. 
You will never succeed in life if you try to hide your sins. Confess them and give them up; then God will show mercy to you. 
But Jesus knew what they were thinking, so he said to them, “Any country that divides itself into groups which fight each other will not last very long; a family divided against itself falls apart.  
He will make some of them officers in charge of a thousand men, and others in charge of fifty men. Your sons will have to plough his fields, harvest his crops, and make his weapons and the equipment for his chariots. 
If the Gentile, who is not circumcised, obeys the commands of the Law, will God not regard him as though he were circumcised? 
Don't we all have the same father? Didn't the same God create us all? Then why do we break our promises to one another, and why do we despise the covenant that God made with our ancestors? 
Please do not leave until I bring you an offering of food.” : He said, “I will stay until you come back.” 
The LORD gave the following regulations. Anyone who curses his father or his mother shall be put to death; he is responsible for his own death. 
So get ready and go down, and do not hesitate to go with them, for I have sent them.” 
A king's greatness depends on how many people he rules; without them he is nothing. 
Praise his name with dancing; : play drums and harps in praise of him. 
The rooms at all three levels were on terraces and were not supported by columns like the other buildings in the courtyard. 
I have received the report of that rage and that pride of yours, and now I will put a hook through your nose and a bit in your mouth and will take you back by the road on which you came.” 
This is the list of the descendants of Adam. (When God created human beings, he made them like himself. 
“Now take some wheat, barley, beans, peas, millet, and spelt. Mix them all together and make bread. That is what you are to eat during the 390 days you are lying on your left side. 
And so I predicted your future long ago, : announcing events before they took place, : to prevent you from claiming : that your idols and images made them happen. 
Let everyone who lives in Zion shout and sing! : Israel's holy God is great, : and he lives among his people.”
The LORD said, “Damascus will not be a city any longer; it will be only a pile of ruins. 
The priest shall examine him again, and if he sees an open sore, he shall pronounce him unclean. An open sore means a dreaded skin disease, and the person is unclean. 
There were Jews living in Jerusalem, religious people who had come from every country in the world. 
Because Shechem had disgraced their sister Dinah, Jacob's sons answered Shechem and his father Hamor in a deceitful way. 
The leaders of Edom are terrified; : Moab's mighty men are trembling; : the people of Canaan lose their courage. 
“Come in, ignorant people!” To the foolish she says, 
The priest shall burn the fat on the altar, but the breast shall belong to the priests. 
The outlets of the water beneath the earth and the floodgates of the sky were closed. The rain stopped, 
I gave them the desert to be their home, : and let them live on the salt plains. 
No one is worse off than someone who is stingy with himself; it is a sin that brings its own punishment. 
Happiness and joy have been taken away from the fertile land of Moab. I have made the wine stop flowing from the winepresses; there is no one to make the wine and shout for joy. 
He came here to deceive you and to find out everything you do and everywhere you go. Surely you know that!” 
So Jacob took a stone and set it up as a memorial. 
Save me from all my sins, : and don't let fools laugh at me. 
Asaph was leader of the second choir. His family line went back to Levi as follows: Asaph, Berechiah, Shimea, 
“Fine!” David answered. “March on!” So Ittai went on with all his men and their dependants. 
Your blessings are with him for ever : and your presence fills him with joy. 
Our father Abraham died; you do not claim to be greater than Abraham, do you? And the prophets also died. Who do you think you are?” 
The wicked run when no one is chasing them, but an honest person is as brave as a lion. 
But there was no one in heaven or on earth or in the world below who could open the scroll and look inside it. 
So the people of Israel captured all the Amorite cities, including Heshbon and all the surrounding towns, and settled in them. 
The LORD says, “Who are these gods that make you afraid, so that you tell me lies and forget me completely? Have you stopped honouring me because I have kept silent for so long? 
When the messengers came back to Jacob, they said, “We went to your brother Esau, and he is already on his way to meet you. He has 400 men with him.” 
Hanun seized David's messengers, shaved off their beards, cut off their clothes at the hips, and sent them away. 
Take with you also twice as much money, because you must take back the money that was returned in the top of your sacks. Maybe it was a mistake. 
I did come from the Father, and I came into the world; and now I am leaving the world and going to the Father.” 
Your influence reached over all the world; your proverbs and riddles were known everywhere. 
Jacob answered, “My life of wandering has lasted 130 years. Those years have been few and difficult, unlike the long years of my ancestors in their wanderings.” 
The LORD answered, “What right have you to be angry?” 
“When you kill an animal for a fellowship offering, keep the regulations that I have given you, and I will accept the offering. 
but she drowned their enemies and washed their bodies up on the shore. 
My brothers and sisters, I am going to use an everyday example: when two people agree on a matter and sign an agreement, no one can break it or add anything to it. 
Testify for your people, whom you created in the beginning; fulfil the prophecies that have been spoken in your name. 
Believe me when I say that I am in the Father and the Father is in me. If not, believe because of the things I do.  
Raguel agreed. “Certainly I will,” he said. “I will give her to you just as the Law of Moses commands. God in heaven has arranged this marriage, so take her as your wife. From now on, you belong to each other. Sarah is yours today and for ever. May the Lord of heaven keep both of you safe tonight. May he be merciful and kind to you.” 
and said to his wife Edna, “Doesn't this young man look just like my cousin Tobit?” 
The LORD asked, “Why should I forgive the sins of my people? : They have abandoned me : and have worshipped gods that are not real. : I fed my people until they were full, : but they committed adultery : and spent their time with prostitutes. 
At that time I will answer the prayers of my people Israel. : I will make rain fall on the earth, : and the earth will produce corn and grapes and olives. 
So Ananias went, entered the house where Saul was, and placed his hands on him. “Brother Saul,” he said, “the Lord has sent me — Jesus himself, who appeared to you on the road as you were coming here. He sent me so that you might see again and be filled with the Holy Spirit.” 
Has any god ever dared to go and take a people from another nation and make them his own, as the LORD your God did for you in Egypt? Before your very eyes he used his great power and strength; he brought plagues and war, worked miracles and wonders, and caused terrifying things to happen. 
Some Pharisees and some teachers of the Law who belonged to their group complained to Jesus' disciples. “Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and other outcasts?” they asked. 
We have heard how wise and clever you are. The whole world knows that you are the most competent, skilled, and accomplished general in the whole Assyrian Empire. 
which he took and ate in their presence. 
the kidneys and the fat on them, and the best part of the liver. 
Before they go to the outer courtyard where the people are, they must first take off the clothes they wore on duty in the Temple and leave them in the holy rooms. They are to put on other clothing in order to keep their sacred clothing from harming the people. 
God is coming again from Edom; : the holy God is coming from the hills of Paran. : His splendour covers the heavens; : and the earth is full of his praise. 
Praise our God, all nations; : let your praise be heard. 
So you cried out to the LORD for help, but he would not listen to you or pay any attention to you. 
The LORD announced his victory; : he made his saving power known to the nations. 
The LORD spoke to me. 
An untamed horse is going to be stubborn, and an undisciplined son is no different. 
The LORD made the earth by his power; : by his wisdom he created the world : and stretched out the heavens. 
“No we don't!” they replied. “Tell us what he said!” : “He told me that the LORD proclaims: ‘I anoint you king of Israel.’ ” 
God's people worshipped idols, : and this caused their destruction. 
Then she took Esau's best clothes, which she kept in the house, and put them on Jacob. 
Many times I had them punished in the synagogues and tried to make them deny their faith. I was so furious with them that I even went to foreign cities to persecute them. 
Isshiah, a descendant of Rehabiah; 
Her enemies robbed her of all her treasures. : She saw them enter the Temple itself, : Where the LORD had forbidden Gentiles to go. 
A fool, on the other hand, has a mind like a jar with a hole in it; anything he learns is soon lost. 
They said to the messengers from Jabesh, “Tell your people that before noon tomorrow they will be rescued.” When the people of Jabesh received the message, they were overjoyed 
Listen, city of God, : to the wonderful things he says about you
They covered the ground until it was black with them; they ate everything that the hail had left, including all the fruit on the trees. Not a green thing was left on any tree or plant in all the land of Egypt. 
In all he does he is faithful and just; : all his commands are dependable. 
The meaning of this command is that the people of Israel shall now bring to the LORD the animals which they used to kill in the open country. They shall now bring them to the priest at the entrance of the Tent and kill them as fellowship offerings. 
But I will use Moab as my washbasin : and I will throw my sandals on Edom, : as a sign that I own it. : I will shout in triumph over the Philistines.” 
then you are guilty of creating distinctions among yourselves and of making judgements based on evil motives. 
“In a little while you will not see me any more, and then a little while later you will see me.” 
It was faith that kept the prostitute Rahab from being killed with those who disobeyed God, for she gave the Israelite spies a friendly welcome. 
So Joseph went to bury his father. All the king's officials, the senior men of his court, and all the leading men of Egypt went with Joseph. 
to give the Israelites the following regulations. Bring to Moses and Aaron a red cow which has no defects and which has never been put to work, 
Are you harmed by my sin, you jailer? : Why use me for your target practice? : Am I so great a burden to you? 
He who comes from above is greater than all. He who is from the earth belongs to the earth and speaks about earthly matters, but he who comes from heaven is above all. 
They have lost all feeling of shame; they give themselves over to vice and do all sorts of indecent things without restraint. 
They sent me the same message four times, and each time I sent them the same reply. 
The Covenant Box of the LORD stayed in Kiriath Jearim a long time, some twenty years. During this time all the Israelites cried to the LORD for help. 
So I will turn my anger loose on them, and like a fire I will destroy them for what they have done.” The Sovereign LORD has spoken.
In our work together with God, then, we beg you who have received God's grace not to let it be wasted. 
Then Pilate's soldiers took Jesus into the governor's palace, and the whole company gathered round him. 
And now we believe and know that you are the Holy One who has come from God.” 
If you spend your time sleeping, you will be poor. Keep busy and you will have plenty to eat. 
No one remembers the wise, and no one remembers fools. In days to come, we will all be forgotten. We must all die — wise and foolish alike. 
He built fortifications for the cities of Judah during this time, and for several years there was no war, because the LORD gave him peace. 
Make two gold carrying rings for it and attach them below the border on two sides to hold the poles with which it is to be carried. 
Tear down their altars and smash their sacred stone pillars to pieces. Burn their symbols of the goddess Asherah and chop down their idols, so that they will never again be worshipped at those places. 
Then the LORD God said to the snake, “You will be punished for this; you alone of all the animals must bear this curse: from now on you will crawl on your belly, and you will have to eat dust as long as you live. 
Everything completes the goodness of something else. : Could anyone ever see enough of this splendour?
Pray that I may be kept safe from the unbelievers in Judea and that my service in Jerusalem may be acceptable to God's people there. 
He controls the times and the seasons; : he makes and unmakes kings; : it is he who gives wisdom and understanding. 
David saw what God was going to do in the future, and so he spoke about the resurrection of the Messiah when he said: : ‘He was not abandoned in the world of the dead; : his body did not rot in the grave.’ 
He says that it never does any good : to try to follow God's will. 
If you listen to me, you will know what is right, just, and fair. You will know what you should do. 
Keep your promise, LORD, and forgive my sins, : for they are many. 
After the sun sets he is clean, and then he may eat the sacred offerings, which are his food. 
The people of Zion are glad, : and the cities of Judah rejoice : because of your judgements, O LORD. 
Be on watch, be alert, for you do not know when the time will come.  
but Paul did not think it was right to take him, because he had not stayed with them to the end of their mission, but had turned back and left them in Pamphylia. 
The pride of those drunken leaders will be trampled underfoot. 
When King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia came to attack Egypt, the LORD spoke to me. He said, 
Why, then, have you disobeyed my commands? Why did you do this evil thing? You had Uriah killed in battle; you let the Ammonites kill him, and then you took his wife! 
“Judah is in mourning; : its cities are dying, : its people lie on the ground in sorrow, : and Jerusalem cries out for help. 
You go to court, but you haven't got justice on your side. You depend on lies to win your case. You carry out your plans to hurt others. 
Relatives and helpers are good to have in times of trouble, but it will be an even greater help if you have made a practice of giving to the poor. 
The LORD said to Moses, “Leave this place, you and the people you brought out of Egypt, and go to the land that I promised to give to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob and to their descendants. 
The people then said to Joshua, “We will serve the LORD our God. We will obey his commands.” 
after that, he lived another 403 years and had other children. 
This is what the Sovereign LORD says to Gog: “When that time comes, you will start thinking up an evil plan. 
So they tied them up, fully dressed — shirts, robes, caps, and all — and threw them into the blazing furnace. 
“Don't be afraid!” the king said to her. “What do you see?” : “I see a spirit coming up from the earth,” she answered. 
Avoid both extremes. If you have reverence for God, you will be successful anyway. 
Give my son Solomon a wholehearted desire to obey everything that you command and to build the Temple for which I have made these preparations.” 
Then Daniel came in. (He is also called Belteshazzar, after the name of my god.) The spirit of the holy gods is in him, so I told him what I had dreamt. I said to him
In the same way, for seven days offer to the LORD a food offering, a smell pleasing to him. Offer this in addition to the daily burnt offering and wine offering. 
“Suppose a man is caught raping a young woman who is not engaged. 
Sacrifice the second lamb in the evening, and offer with it the same amounts of flour, olive oil, and wine as in the morning. This is a food offering to me, the LORD, and its odour pleases me. 
Baana son of Ahilud: the cities of Taanach, Megiddo, and all the region near Beth Shan, near the town of Zarethan, south of the town of Jezreel, as far as the city of Abel Meholah and the city of Jokmeam 
On every New Moon Festival and every Sabbath, people of every nation will come to worship me here in Jerusalem,” says the LORD. 
David was wearing a robe made of the finest linen, and so were the musicians, Chenaniah their leader, and the Levites who carried the Box. David also wore a linen ephod. 
according to the official standard: : — adult male, twenty to sixty years old: fifty pieces of silver : — adult female: thirty pieces of silver : — young male, five to twenty years old: twenty pieces of silver : — young female: ten pieces of silver : — infant male under five: five pieces of silver : — infant female: three pieces of silver : — male above sixty years of age: fifteen pieces of silver : — female above sixty: ten pieces of silver 
Bavvai son of Henadad, ruler of the other half of the Keilah District, built the next section; 
Those who eat my flesh and drink my blood have eternal life, and I will raise them to life on the last day.  
The clan of Merari was composed of the families of Mahli and Mushi. 
If he was put right with God by the things he did, he would have something to boast about — but not in God's sight. 
When they reached the hill where Elisha lived, Gehazi took the two bags and carried them into the house. Then he sent Naaman's servants back. 
Don't say, “I'll do to him just what he did to me! I'll get even with him!” 
and then lived another 807 years. He had other children 
You know the old saying, ‘Evil is done only by evil people.’ And so I will not harm you. 
On the eighth day she shall take two doves or two pigeons to the priest at the entrance of the Tent of the LORD's presence. 
took it into the temple of their god Dagon, and set it up beside his statue. 
Do not let such a woman win your heart; don't go wandering after her. 
and if I ask you a question, you will not answer.  
They served David as officers over his troops, because they were all outstanding soldiers. Later they were officers in the Israelite army. 
God says, : “Be silent and listen to me, you distant lands! : Get ready to present your case in court; : you will have your chance to speak. : Let us come together to decide who is right. 
If you refuse to obey my laws and commands and break the covenant I have made with you, 
For John is the one of whom the scripture says: ‘God said, I will send my messenger ahead of you to open the way for you.’  
He sends rain on the land : and he waters the fields. 
If you touch a dead body and then purify yourself by washing, but then go and touch it again, what good did the washing do? 
Why do you reject me, LORD? : Why do you turn away from me? 
They have no leader, chief, or ruler, 
the priest shall examine him again. If he finds that it actually has covered the whole body, he shall pronounce the person ritually clean. If his whole skin has turned white, he is ritually clean. 
The people who once were well fed : now hire themselves out to get food, : but the hungry are hungry no more. : The childless wife has borne seven children, : but the mother of many is left with none. 
O Lord, my Father, God of my life, keep me from being arrogant; 
That night God appeared to Solomon and asked, “What would you like me to give you?” 
But before the end comes, the gospel must be preached to all peoples.  
Then Joshua son of Nun, who had been Moses' helper since he was a young man, spoke up and said to Moses, “Stop them, sir!” 
If anyone sins unintentionally by breaking any of the LORD's commands, he is guilty and must pay the penalty. 
And he said to them all, “Anyone who wants to come with me must forget self, take up their cross every day, and follow me.  
Another messenger was sent out, who asked Jehu the same question. Again Jehu answered, “That's none of your business! Fall in behind me.” 
I wander about like a lost sheep; : so come and look for me, your servant, : because I have not neglected your laws.
But as for you, continue in the truths that you were taught and firmly believe. You know who your teachers were, 
My Christian brothers and sisters, who also have been called by God! Think of Jesus, whom God sent to be the High Priest of the faith we profess. 
The LORD is our protector and glorious king, : blessing us with kindness and honour. : He does not refuse any good thing : to those who do what is right. 
After hearing the officer's report, Pilate told Joseph he could have the body. 
“You, my sheep, the flock that I feed, are my people, and I am your God,” says the Sovereign LORD.
Now this is what I heard you say
Sin waits for those looking for a chance to sin, just as a lion waits for prey. 
Everyone who wants to live a godly life in union with Christ Jesus will be persecuted; 
that creation itself would one day be set free from its slavery to decay and would share the glorious freedom of the children of God. 
In this way you can make them pay for their rebellion and for refusing to surrender peacefully to you.” 
Lot hesitated. The LORD, however, had pity on him; so the men took him, his wife, and his two daughters by the hand and led them out of the city. 
Tell them what I am saying. When I chose Israel, I made them a promise. I revealed myself to them in Egypt and told them: I am the LORD your God. 
As Jesus made his way to Jerusalem, he went along the border between Samaria and Galilee. 
I know that your goodness and love will be with me all my life; : and your house will be my home as long as I live.
His father refused, saying, “I know, my son, I know. Manasseh's descendants will also become a great people. But his younger brother will be greater than he, and his descendants will become great nations.” 
After Herod died, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt 
I watched the ram butting with his horns to the west, the north, and the south. No animal could stop him or escape his power. He did as he pleased and grew arrogant. 
Do not offer to the LORD any animal that is blind or crippled or mutilated, or that has a running sore or a skin eruption or scabs. Do not offer any such animals on the altar as a food offering. 
For the Tent of the LORD's presence he made the enclosure out of fine linen curtains. On the south side the curtains were 44 metres long, 
but I know him, because I come from him and he sent me.” 
then instead of wheat and barley, : may weeds and thistles grow. : The words of Job are ended.
Appaim was the father of Ishi, Ishi was the father of Sheshan, and Sheshan the father of Ahlai. 
They refused to provide you with food and water when you were on your way out of Egypt, and they hired Balaam son of Beor, from the city of Pethor in Mesopotamia, to curse you. 
He divided the Red Sea; : his love is eternal; 
You trampled the sea with your horses, : and the mighty waters foamed. 
Moses did as the LORD had commanded, and when the community had assembled, 
Then the people of Israel cried out to the LORD for help against the Midianites, 
In the fiftieth year of the reign of King Uzziah of Judah, Pekahiah son of Menahem became king of Israel, and he ruled in Samaria for two years. 
They walk into a net, and their feet are caught; 
The huge dragon was thrown out — that ancient serpent, called the Devil, or Satan, that deceived the whole world. He was thrown down to earth, and all his angels with him. 
Go looking for her, and she will reveal herself to you. Take hold of her and don't let go. 
We marvel at its beautiful whiteness, : and in fascination we watch it fall. 
so that you may become the children of your Father in heaven. For he makes his sun to shine on bad and good people alike, and gives rain to those who do good and to those who do evil.  
Demas fell in love with this present world and has deserted me, going off to Thessalonica. Crescens went to Galatia, and Titus to Dalmatia. 
To fear the Lord is the flower of Wisdom : that blossoms with peace and good health. 
The LORD was pleased that Solomon had asked for this, 
The people will live there in safety, no longer threatened by destruction. 
Judgement does not come from the east or from the west, : from the north or from the south; 
So Bathsheba went to see the king in his bedroom. He was very old, and Abishag, the woman from Shunem, was taking care of him. 
Where there is jealousy and selfishness, there is also disorder and every kind of evil. 
As for the king himself, this is what I, the LORD God of Israel, say: You listened to what is written in the book, 
Take your brother and return at once. 
When you complain against Aaron, it is really against the LORD that you and your followers are rebelling.” 
He trains me for battle, : so that I can use the strongest bow. 
Some of the people concluded that Alexander was responsible, since the Jews made him go up to the front. Then Alexander motioned with his hand for the people to be silent, and he tried to make a speech of defence. 
Go and farm the land, you people in the colonies in Spain! There is no one to protect you any more.  
Isaac said, “Father!” : He answered, “Yes, my son?” : Isaac asked, “I see that you have the coals and the wood, but where is the lamb for the sacrifice?” 
Do not take revenge on anyone or continue to hate him, but love your neighbour as you love yourself. I am the LORD. 
It sparkles with teachings like the Nile, like the Gihon at grape-picking time. 
You have come to Jesus, who arranged the new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that promises much better things than does the blood of Abel. 
Completely destroy all the people: the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, as the LORD ordered you to do. 
using accurate weights and measures, 
Although the land has not been cultivated during that year, it will provide food for you, your slaves, your hired men, the foreigners living with you, 
What do you think?” : They answered, “He is guilty and must die.” 
Then Josiah looked round and saw some tombs there on the hill; he had the bones taken out of them and burnt on the altar. In this way he desecrated the altar, doing what the prophet had predicted long before during the festival as King Jeroboam was standing by the altar. King Josiah looked round and saw the tomb of the prophet who had made this prediction. 
Everyone who worships it will be humiliated. The people who make idols are human beings and nothing more. Let them come and stand trial — they will be terrified and will suffer disgrace. 
Do to their leaders what you did to Oreb and Zeeb; : defeat all their rulers as you did Zebah and Zalmunna, 
When the guards went back, the chief priests and Pharisees asked them, “Why did you not bring him?” 
I send greetings to Priscilla and Aquila and to the family of Onesiphorus. 
Keep the religious festivals and honour the place where I am worshipped. I am the LORD. 
Since we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. 
Then I will be a sign to you; you will do everything I have done. The LORD says that when this happens, you will know that he is the Sovereign LORD.” 
The LORD said to Moses, 
The ends of the poles could be seen by anyone standing directly in front of the Most Holy Place, but from nowhere else. (The poles are still there today.) 
But that night the LORD said to Nathan, 
I protest against his violence, : but no one is listening; : no one hears my cry for justice. 
He will come to judge like one who refines and purifies silver. As a metalworker refines silver and gold, so the LORD's messenger will purify the priests, so that they will bring to the LORD the right kind of offerings. 
Righteousness gives life, but violence takes it away. 
“I sent a scorching wind to dry up your crops. The locusts ate up all your gardens and vineyards, your fig trees and olive trees. Still you did not come back to me. 
he judges in favour of the oppressed : and gives food to the hungry. : The LORD sets prisoners free 
All righteous people will rejoice : because of what the LORD has done. : They will find safety in him; : all good people will praise him.
“In time to come your children will ask you, ‘Why did the LORD our God command us to obey all these laws?’ 
Everyone, then, went to register himself, each to his own town. 
But the LORD sent a strong wind on the sea, and the storm was so violent that the ship was in danger of breaking up. 
If a priest's daughter becomes a prostitute, she disgraces her father; she shall be burnt to death. 
This is now the third time that I am ready to come to visit you — and I will not make any demands on you. It is you I want, not your money. After all, children should not have to provide for their parents, but parents should provide for their children. 
He keeps your gates strong; : he blesses your people. 
Saul said to David, “God bless you, my son! You will succeed in everything you do!” : So David went on his way, and Saul returned home.
About that time some prophets went from Jerusalem to Antioch. 
The queen of Sheba heard Solomon's wisdom and saw the palace he had built. 
So the people filled their baking pans with unleavened dough, wrapped them in clothing, and carried them on their shoulders. 
You will be tied with ropes, mortal man, and you will not be able to go out in public. 
Why do you who are here find it impossible to believe that God raises the dead? 
Zadok, Ahimaaz, 
the flower decorations, the lamps, and the tongs; 
Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ send you their greetings. 
You have no troubles, and yet you make fun of me; : you hit someone who is about to fall. 
This is what happened in ancient times, when a proud race of giants was dying away. The hope of the world escaped on such a boat under your guidance and left the world a new generation to carry on the human race. 
But no, after all, you have seen for yourselves; : so why do you talk such nonsense? 
The three-storied annexe, each storey 2.2 metres high, was built against the outside walls of the Temple, and was joined to them by cedar beams. 
The entire Assyrian army — infantry, chariots, and cavalry — blockaded Bethulia for 34 days until the town ran out of water. 
So the people stopped worshipping in the Temple of the LORD, the God of their ancestors, and began to worship idols and the images of the goddess Asherah. Their guilt for these sins brought the LORD's anger on Judah and Jerusalem. 
I reprimanded the Jewish leaders and said, “Look at the evil you're doing! You're making the Sabbath unholy. 
“The LORD also said to me, ‘I know how stubborn these people are. 
He went back into the house, and Elisha asked him, “Where have you been?” : “Oh, nowhere, sir,” he answered. 
Do you love justice? All the virtues are the result of Wisdom's work: justice and courage, self-control and understanding. Life can offer us nothing more valuable than these. 
He sends down flaming coals and burning sulphur on the wicked; : he punishes them with scorching winds. 
But Peter got up and ran to the tomb; he bent down and saw the linen wrappings but nothing else. Then he went back home amazed at what had happened. 
The LORD commanded Moses 
and if I return safely to my father's home, then you will be my God. 
As the LORD had commanded Moses, Aaron put it in front of the Covenant Box, so that it could be kept. 
You are guilty. You are like a high wall with a crack running down it; suddenly you will collapse. 
They will die of terrible diseases, and no one will mourn for them or bury them. Their bodies will lie like piles of manure on the ground. They will be killed in war or die of starvation, and their bodies will be food for the birds and the wild animals. 
the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai, 
“Listen!” says Jesus. “I am coming soon! I will bring my rewards with me, to give to each one according to what he has done.  
David handed them over to the people of Gibeon, who hanged them on the mountain before the LORD — and all seven of them died together. It was late in the spring, at the beginning of the barley harvest, when they were put to death. 
“For 23 years, from the thirteenth year that Josiah son of Amon was king of Judah until this very day, the LORD has spoken to me, and I have never failed to tell you what he said. But you have paid no attention. 
Now if you kill all your people, the nations who have heard of your fame will say 
She waited until she saw all hope was gone. : Then she reared another of her cubs, : and he grew into a fierce lion. 
It was not enough for him to sin like King Jeroboam; he went further and married Jezebel, the daughter of King Ethbaal of Sidon, and worshipped Baal. 
The boots of the invading army : and all their bloodstained clothing : will be destroyed by fire. 
But leave the stump in the ground with a band of iron and bronze round it. Leave it there in the field with the grass. : “ ‘Now let the dew fall on this man, and let him live with the animals and the plants. 
“Then the servant who had received 1,000 coins came in and said, ‘Sir, I know you are a hard man; you reap harvests where you did not sow, and you gather crops where you did not scatter seed.  
But if its owner lives a long way off or if you don't know who owns it, then take it home with you. When its owner comes looking for it, give it to him. 
“I was trapped like a bird by enemies who had no cause to hate me. 
On the second visit Joseph made himself known to his brothers, and the king of Egypt came to know about Joseph's family. 
The guards announced the news, and it was reported in the palace. 
For when the dead rise to life, they will be like the angels in heaven and will not marry.  
and will surround Jerusalem like men guarding a field, because her people have rebelled against the LORD. The LORD has spoken. 
I was trying to understand what the vision meant, when suddenly someone was standing in front of me. 
Moses gave the following instructions to the leaders of the tribes of Israel. 
The LORD spoke to me concerning all the Israelites living in Egypt, in the cities of Migdol, Tahpanhes, and Memphis, and in the southern part of the country. 
He doesn't worship the idols of the Israelites or eat the sacrifices offered at forbidden shrines. He doesn't seduce another man's wife 
Hashabiah, Amaziah, Hilkiah, 
“You don't know what you are asking for,” Jesus answered the sons. “Can you drink the cup of suffering that I am about to drink?” : “We can,” they answered. 
The rest of the people of Israel and the remaining priests and Levites lived on their own property in the other cities and towns of Judah. 
At the time when they spoke to the king, Moses was eighty years old, and Aaron was 83. 
They fail to see why they were defeated; : they cannot understand what happened. 
When spring came, King Nebuchadnezzar took Jehoiachin to Babylonia as a prisoner, and carried off the treasures of the Temple. Then Nebuchadnezzar made Jehoiachin's uncle Zedekiah king of Judah and Jerusalem. 
And so I am sure that God, who began this good work in you, will carry it on until it is finished on the Day of Christ Jesus. 
On the grating of each column there were a hundred pomegranates in all, and 96 of these were visible from the ground. 
The mind concerns itself with four things: these are good and evil, life and death. They all begin in the mind, but the tongue is their absolute ruler. 
because we are going to destroy this place. The LORD has heard the terrible accusations against these people and has sent us to destroy Sodom.” 
It is not we who have closed our hearts to you; it is you who have closed your hearts to us. 
“This God is our God for ever and ever; : he will lead us for all time to come.”
I thank you, LORD, with all my heart; : I sing praise to you before the gods. 
except for the one thing I called out when I stood before them: ‘I am being tried by you today for believing that the dead will rise to life.’ ” 
When a bull is offered to the LORD as a burnt offering or as a sacrifice in fulfilment of a vow or as a fellowship offering, 
Do your best to come to me soon. 
In trouble like this I need loyal friends — : whether I've forsaken God or not. 
When the king saw what had happened, he sinned again. He and his officials remained as stubborn as ever 
The LORD your God takes care of this land and watches over it throughout the year. 
to follow the leadership of such people as these, and of anyone else who works and serves with them. 
Children shall be bought back at the age of one month for the fixed price of five pieces of silver, according to the official standard. 
Near the beginning of harvest time three of “The Thirty” went down to the cave of Adullam, where David was, while a band of Philistines was camping in the Valley of Rephaim. 
“If a fellow-Israelite's donkey or cow has fallen down, don't ignore it; help him to get the animal to its feet again. 
The wicked tell God to leave them alone; : they don't want to know his will for their lives. 
Goliath started walking towards David again, and David ran quickly towards the Philistine battle line to fight him. 
They make evil plans as they lie in bed; : nothing they do is good, : and they never reject anything evil. 
When Holofernes, the Assyrian general, heard that the Israelites had prepared for war, blocked the mountain passes, fortified the mountaintops, and set up roadblocks in the plains, 
If you respect your father, one day your own children will make you happy; the Lord will hear your prayers. 
We are ruled by the love of Christ, now that we recognize that one man died for everyone, which means that all share in his death. 
Some time later King David attacked the Philistines again, defeated them, and ended their control over the land. 
Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky; and all the peoples of earth will weep as they see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.  
But when he noticed the strong wind, he was afraid and started to sink down in the water. “Save me, Lord!” he cried. 
I stretched out my hand to punish those kingdoms that worship idols, idols more numerous than those of Jerusalem and Samaria. 
If you obey this command, the LORD will be pleased, and all will go well for you and your descendants. 
The LORD says, “Bethlehem Ephrathah, you are one of the smallest towns in Judah, but out of you I will bring a ruler for Israel, whose family line goes back to ancient times.” 
The royal advisers came forward, but none of them could read the writing or tell the king what it meant. 
The LORD says: : “What accusation did your ancestors bring against me? : What made them turn away from me? : They worshipped worthless idols : and became worthless themselves. 
The angel asked, “Why do you want to know my name? It is a name of wonder.” 
When people are happy, they smile, but when they are sad, they look depressed. 
While I was still in prison in the courtyard, the LORD's message came to me again. 
“But now you priests have turned away from the right path. Your teaching has led many to do wrong. You have broken the covenant I made with you. 
It was the fourteenth night, and we were being driven about in the Mediterranean by the storm. About midnight the sailors suspected that we were getting close to land. 
They do not suffer pain; : they are strong and healthy. 
He sent Eliakim, the official in charge of the palace, Shebna, the court secretary, and the senior priests to the prophet Isaiah son of Amoz. They also were wearing sackcloth. 
But when King Ahab of Israel died, Mesha rebelled against Israel. 
Not even the world of the dead can keep the LORD from knowing what is there; how then can people hide their thoughts from God? 
Othniel, the son of Caleb's younger brother Kenaz, captured the city, so Caleb gave him his daughter Achsah in marriage. 
But you teach that if a person has something he could use to help his father or mother, but says, ‘This belongs to God,’  
Leave your orphans with me, and I will take care of them. Your widows can depend on me. 
“How much bread have you got?” Jesus asked. : “Seven loaves,” they answered. 
The earth will lie shattered and ruined. The LORD has spoken and it will be done. 
And so there is no division in the body, but all its different parts have the same concern for one another. 
You have no part or share in our work, because your heart is not right in God's sight. 
Following the example of his ancestor King David, he did what was pleasing to the LORD. 
where he stayed three months. He was getting ready to go to Syria when he discovered that there were Jews plotting against him; so he decided to go back through Macedonia. 
and in the desert. You saw how he brought you safely all the way to this place, just as a father would carry his son.’ 
Moses took all the sticks and showed them to the Israelites. They saw what had happened, and each leader took his own stick back. 
It was by their faith that people of ancient times won God's approval. 
Then Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, “Since there are so many of you, you take a bull and prepare it first. Pray to your god, but don't set fire to the wood.” 
In the same way the servant who had received 2,000 coins earned another 2,000.  
Divide what was taken into two equal parts, one part for the soldiers and the other part for the rest of the community. 
until a spirit stepped forward, approached the LORD, and said, ‘I will deceive him.’ ‘How?’ the LORD asked. 
Eleazar, Aaron's son, married one of Putiel's daughters, who bore him Phinehas. These were the heads of the families and the clans of the tribe of Levi. 
But you, LORD, are feared by all. : No one can stand in your presence : when you are angry. 
The people who walked in darkness : have seen a great light. : They lived in a land of shadows, : but now light is shining on them. 
You have killed that friendship just as surely as if you had taken a weapon and killed an enemy. 
But the Assyrian emperor has his own violent plans in mind. He is determined to destroy many nations. 
The following members of the tribe of Benjamin lived in Jerusalem: : Sallu son of Meshullam, who was the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hassenuah : Ibneiah son of Jeroham : Elah, the son of Uzzi and grandson of Michri : Meshullam son of Shephatiah, who was the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah 
“Bring forward the tribe of Levi and appoint them as servants of Aaron the priest. 
When I have finished this task and have handed over to them all the money that has been raised for them, I shall leave for Spain and visit you on my way there. 
They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction, separated from the presence of the Lord and from his glorious might, 
those who do evil all the time : and are always ready to take bribes. 
All the people of Judah chose Amaziah's sixteen-year-old son Uzziah to succeed his father as king. 
Don't go after false gods; they cannot help you or save you, for they are not real. 
and the Israelites went through the sea on dry ground, with walls of water on both sides. 
And now Naaman's disease will come upon you, and you and your descendants will have it for ever!” : When Gehazi left, he had the disease — his skin was as white as snow.
He abolished the Jewish Law with its commandments and rules, in order to create out of the two races one new people in union with himself, in this way making peace. 
Because there is no rain : and the ground is dried up, : the farmers are sick at heart; : they hide their faces. 
The disciples answered, “If he is asleep, Lord, he will get well.” 
If the meat comes into contact with anything ritually unclean, it must not be eaten, but must be burned. : Anyone who is ritually clean may eat the meat, 
For they set out on their journey in the service of Christ without accepting any help from unbelievers. 
“God has blinded their eyes : and closed their minds, : so that their eyes would not see, : and their minds would not understand, : and they would not turn to me, says God, : for me to heal them.” 
It is the one who sins who will die. A son is not to suffer because of his father's sins, nor a father because of the sins of his son. A good person will be rewarded for doing good, and an evil person will suffer for the evil he does. 
Anyone who takes oaths all the time is sinful to the core, and punishment is never far away from his household. If he fails to fulfil his oath, he is guilty. If he ignores his oath, he is twice as guilty. If his oath was insincere in the first place, he cannot be pardoned and will have a house full of trouble. 
Then one of them, who was named Harbonah, said, “Haman even went so far as to build a gallows at his house so that he could hang Mordecai, who saved Your Majesty's life. And it's 22 metres tall!” : “Hang Haman on it!” the king commanded. 
and Jehu said to them, “Throw her down!” They threw her down, and her blood spattered the wall and the horses. Jehu drove his horses and chariot over her body, 
Now leave me alone to weep bitterly over all those of my people who have died. Don't try to comfort me. 
So I, the LORD God of Israel, will bring such a disaster on Jerusalem and Judah that everyone who hears about it will be stunned. 
Here I am with the children the LORD has given me. The LORD Almighty, whose throne is on Mount Zion, has sent us as living messages to the people of Israel. 
Be obedient to God, and do not allow your lives to be shaped by those desires you had when you were still ignorant. 
The middle crossbar, set halfway up the frames, extended from one end of the Tent to the other. 
This God — how perfect are his deeds! : How dependable his words! : He is like a shield : for all who seek his protection. 
Do not let evil defeat you; instead, conquer evil with good.
The people of Manasseh, however, were not able to drive out the people living in those cities, so the Canaanites continued to live there. 
I will not spare you or show you any mercy. I am going to punish you for the disgusting things you have done, so that you will know that I am the LORD.” 
He, like his predecessors, sinned against the LORD. He followed the wicked example of King Jeroboam son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin. 
So Aaron and his sons did everything that the LORD had commanded through Moses.
Eliezer had only one son, Rehabiah, but Rehabiah had many descendants. 
Solomon filled in the land on the east side of the city, after his wife, the daughter of the king of Egypt, had moved from David's City to the palace Solomon built for her. 
I gave them my commands and taught them my laws, which bring life to anyone who obeys them. 
I am on my way to see Holofernes, the general in command of your army, to give him some reliable information. I can show him how to advance into the mountains and take control of the entire region without a single casualty.” 
When the man, his concubine, and the servant once more started to leave, the father said, “Look, it's almost evening now; you might as well stay all night. It will be dark soon; stay here and have a good time. Tomorrow you can get up early for your journey and go home.” 
and spices and oil for the lamps, for the anointing oil, and for the sweet-smelling incense. 
It was at this time that Moses was born, a very beautiful child. He was cared for at home for three months, 
Then Saul said to David, “Here is my elder daughter Merab. I will give her to you as your wife on condition that you serve me as a brave and loyal soldier, and fight the LORD's battles.” (Saul was thinking that in this way the Philistines would kill David, and he would not have to do it himself.) 
The wicked do not care about the LORD; : in their pride they think that God doesn't matter. 
Do not let anyone deceive you with foolish words; it is because of these very things that God's anger will come upon those who do not obey him. 
Every year King Solomon received almost 23 tonnes of gold, 
He was an enemy of Israel during the lifetime of Solomon. 
You shall obey me, the LORD, who brought you out of Egypt with great power and strength; you are to bow down to me and offer sacrifices to me. 
He remembered the dreams he had dreamt about them and said, “You are spies; you have come to find out where our country is weak.” 
They crossed the Jordan and camped south of Aroer, the city in the middle of the valley, in the territory of Gad. From there they went north to Jazer, 
But by means of that commandment sin found its chance to stir up all kinds of selfish desires in me. Apart from law, sin is a dead thing. 
There were Halhul, Bethzur, Gedor, 
Wickedness and violence are like food and drink to them. 
Isaac answered, “I have already made him master over you, and I have made all his relatives his slaves. I have given him corn and wine. Now there is nothing that I can do for you, my son!” 
But Peter said to him, “I have no money at all, but I give you what I have: in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth I order you to get up and walk!” 
For if what God promises is to be given to those who obey the Law, then faith means nothing and God's promise is worthless. 
It is useless; it is like chasing the wind. It is better to be satisfied with what you have than to be always wanting something else. 
“Dedicate all the firstborn males to me, for every firstborn male Israelite and every firstborn male animal belongs to me.” 
The LORD says, “My people shout, ‘The LORD has shown that we are in the right. Let's go and tell the people in Jerusalem what the LORD our God has done.’ ” 
When he had finished offering the sacrifices, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD Almighty 
“Give thanks to the LORD, because he is good; : his love is eternal!” 
But I know that even now God will give you whatever you ask him for.” 
No one comes to the Temple now to worship on the holy days. : The young women who sang there suffer, and the priests can only groan. : The city gates stand empty, and Zion is in agony. 
Every person will die sooner or later, but anything he makes with his wicked hands is dead from the start. He himself is better than what he worships. He at least is alive, but what he worships is not, and never has been. 
If you dig a pit, you fall in it; if you break through a wall, a snake bites you. 
Don't pretend to be his equal or trust everything he says. In spite of all his long and polite conversation, he is testing you. 
They called out and asked, “Is there a guest here by the name of Simon Peter?” 
Your love, dear brother, has brought me great joy and much encouragement! You have cheered the hearts of all God's people. 
The LORD Almighty says that disaster is coming on one nation after another, and a great storm is gathering at the far ends of the earth. 
Jesus answered, “How terrible also for you teachers of the Law! You put loads on people's backs which are hard to carry, but you yourselves will not stretch out a finger to help them carry those loads.  
Do not make yourselves unclean by eating any of these. 
the Tent, its covering and its outer covering, its hooks and its frames, its crossbars, its posts, and its bases; 
LORD, hear my prayer! : In your righteousness listen to my plea; : answer me in your faithfulness! 
We fall crushed to the ground; : we lie defeated in the dust. 
He answered them all; there was nothing too difficult for him to explain. 
But the LORD says, “Can an axe claim to be greater than the man who uses it? Is a saw more important than the man who saws with it? A club doesn't lift up a man; a man lifts up a club.” 
As the scripture says, “You have found out for yourselves how kind the Lord is.” 
So the Philistine kings brought Delilah seven new bowstrings that were not dried out, and she tied Samson up. 
The LORD Almighty is determined to do this; he has stretched out his arm to punish, and no one can stop him. 
I determined that I would examine and study all the things that are done in this world. : God has laid a miserable fate upon us. 
My heart is with the commanders of Israel, : with the people who gladly volunteered. : Praise the LORD! 
For Levi had not yet been born, but was, so to speak, in the body of his ancestor Abraham when Melchizedek met him. 
As Jehu came through the gate, she called out, “You Zimri! You assassin! Why are you here?” 
And you two sisters — I will punish you for your immorality and your sin of worshipping idols. Then you will know that I am the Sovereign LORD.”
In the first case, someone who is ritually clean is to take a sprig of hyssop, dip it in the water, and sprinkle the tent, everything in it, and the people who were there. In the second case, someone who is ritually clean is to sprinkle the water on the man who had touched the human bone or the dead body or the grave. 
In the fourth year that Jehoiakim son of Josiah was king of Judah, the LORD said to me, 
There were also Zenan, Hadashah, Migdalgad, 
do not despise inspired messages. 
The men said to her, “We will keep the promise that you have made us give. 
So the LORD caused Hadad, of the royal family of Edom, to turn against Solomon. 
Good people will have wealth to leave to their grandchildren, but the wealth of sinners will go to the righteous. 
In this way the teaching you pass on to others cancels out the word of God. And there are many other things like this that you do.” 
We came to where we could see Cyprus, and then sailed south of it on to Syria. We went ashore at Tyre, where the ship was going to unload its cargo. 
While Moses was still in Midian, the LORD said to him, “Go back to Egypt, for all those who wanted to kill you are dead.” 
What happened to your prophets who told you that the king of Babylonia would not attack you or the country? 
He asked them, “Why have you kept all the women alive? 
But to the people of Judah I will show love. I, the LORD their God, will save them, but I will not do it by war — with swords or bows and arrows or with horses and horsemen.” 
The Sovereign LORD said, “The day I spoke about is certain to come. 
Do not keep for yourselves anything that was condemned to destruction, and then the LORD will turn from his fierce anger and show you mercy. He will be merciful to you and make you a numerous people, as he promised your ancestors, 
Each man caught his opponent by the head and plunged his sword into his opponent's side, so that all 24 of them fell down dead together. And so that place in Gibeon is called “Field of Swords”. 
They were annoyed because the two apostles were teaching the people that Jesus had risen from death, which proved that the dead will rise to life. 
Next, Moses brought the sons of Aaron forward and put shirts on them, put sashes round their waists, and tied caps on their heads, just as the LORD had commanded. 
Manasseh killed so many innocent people that the streets of Jerusalem were flowing with blood; he did this in addition to leading the people of Judah into idolatry, causing them to sin against the LORD. 
He may bring us sorrow, but his love for us is sure and strong. 
Ephron himself was sitting with the other Hittites at the meeting place at the city gate; he answered in the hearing of everyone there, 
The Gentiles do not have the Law; but whenever they do by instinct what the Law commands, they are their own law, even though they do not have the Law. 
It might appear that they have suffered punishment, but they have the confident hope of immortality. 
After her flow stops, she must wait seven days, and then she will be ritually clean. 
The men twenty years old or older who were fit for military service were registered by name according to clan and family, beginning with the tribe of Reuben, Jacob's eldest son. The totals were as follows: :  :  : Reuben : 46,500 : Simeon : 59,300 : Gad : 45,650 : Judah : 74,600 : Issachar : 54,400 : Zebulun : 57,400 : Ephraim : 40,500 : Manasseh : 32,200 : Benjamin : 35,400 : Dan : 62,700 : Asher : 41,500 : Naphtali : 53,400 : Total: : 603,550 
My dear friends, this is now the second letter I have written to you. In both letters I have tried to arouse pure thoughts in your minds by reminding you of these things. 
Never trust an enemy; his wickedness is as destructive as rust. 
She was riding her donkey round a bend on a hillside when suddenly she met David and his men coming towards her. 
and have hated Esau and his descendants. I have devastated Esau's hill country and abandoned the land to jackals.” 
The king will capture all his enemies; : he will capture everyone who hates him. 
When you get your food, eat it like a human being. Don't smack your lips and slurp; nobody can stand that. 
Be on guard, then, because you do not know when the master of the house is coming — it might be in the evening or at midnight or before dawn or at sunrise.  
After the uproar died down, Paul called together the believers and with words of encouragement said goodbye to them. Then he left and went on to Macedonia. 
heal the sick in that town, and say to the people there, ‘The Kingdom of God has come near you.’  
Now, it is good to have such a deep interest if the purpose is good — this is true always, and not merely when I am with you. 
The Israelites had done as Moses had said, and had asked the Egyptians for gold and silver jewellery and for clothing. 
If your enemies are hungry, feed them; if they are thirsty, give them a drink. 
Jesus knew that they were about to come and seize him in order to make him king by force; so he went off again to the hills by himself. 
Now at last the whole world enjoys rest and peace, and everyone sings for joy. 
All your creatures, LORD, will praise you, : and all your people will give you thanks. 
And if the one who plays the bugle does not sound a clear call, who will prepare for battle? 
Their minds, indeed, were closed; and to this very day their minds are covered with the same veil as they read the books of the old covenant. The veil is removed only when a person is joined to Christ. 
Tell him to get ready and have all his troops ready at his command. 
and do not realize that this reliance on foreigners has robbed them of their strength. Their days are numbered, but they don't even know it. 
He will take your servants and your best cattle and donkeys, and make them work for him. 
Get up, go and pick him up, and comfort him. I will make a great nation out of his descendants.” 
I will think about all that you have done; : I will meditate on all your mighty acts. 
All of them know that the LORD's hand made them. 
If you obey the Law, your circumcision is of value; but if you disobey the Law, you might as well never have been circumcised. 
If one part of the body suffers, all the other parts suffer with it; if one part is praised, all the other parts share its happiness. 
“Who will lead the attack?” Ahab asked. : The prophet answered, “The LORD says that the young soldiers under the command of the district governors are to do it.” : “Who will command the main force?” the king asked. : “You,” the prophet answered. 
This is a message about Babylonia. : Like a whirlwind sweeping across the desert, disaster will come from a terrifying land. 
When his troubles were at their worst, that man Ahaz sinned against the LORD more than ever. 
But those who seemed to be the leaders — I say this because it makes no difference to me what they were; God does not judge by outward appearances — those leaders, I say, made no new suggestions to me. 
If a family divides itself into groups which fight each other, that family will fall apart.  
After I come, I shall give letters of introduction to those you have approved, and send them to take your gift to Jerusalem. 
“Listen! I am coming like a thief! Happy is he who stays awake and guards his clothes, so that he will not walk around naked and be ashamed in public!” 
“Parents are not to be put to death for crimes committed by their children, and children are not to be put to death for crimes committed by their parents; people are to be put to death only for crimes they themselves have committed. 
“How long has he been like this?” Jesus asked the father. : “Ever since he was a child,” he replied. 
Balaam said to Balak, “Stand here by your burnt offering, and I will meet God over there.” 
None of the rulers of this world knew this wisdom. If they had known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. 
Gold bells were also round its hem, so that when he walked, their ringing would be heard in the Temple, and the Lord would remember his people. 
War will bring death in the streets; : terrors will strike in the homes. : Young men and young women will die; : neither babies nor old people will be spared. 
To the church of God which is in Corinth, to all who are called to be God's holy people, who belong to him in union with Christ Jesus, together with all people everywhere who worship our Lord Jesus Christ, their Lord and ours
so that the wall enclosed a square 250 metres on each side. The wall served to separate what was holy from what was not.
I am sure of this, and so I know that I will stay. I will stay on with you all, to add to your progress and joy in the faith, 
When the rainbow appears in the clouds, I will see it and remember the everlasting covenant between me and all living beings on earth. 
Jarmuth, Adullam, Socoh, Azekah, 
Then they prayed, “Lord, you know the thoughts of everyone, so show us which of these two you have chosen 
The people in the towns and in the surrounding countryside welcomed Holofernes by wearing wreaths of flowers and dancing to the beat of drums. 
So now listen to what the LORD says. You tell me to stop prophesying, to stop raving against the people of Israel. 
Now I know that the LORD is greater than all the gods, because he did this when the Egyptians treated the Israelites with such contempt.” 
Other people are like the seeds sown among the thorn bushes. These are the ones who hear the message,  
The Spirit of God came upon Azariah son of Oded, 
with a flaming fire, to punish those who reject God and who do not obey the Good News about our Lord Jesus. 
David said to Ahimelech, “Have you got a spear or a sword you can give me? The king's orders made me leave in such a hurry that I didn't have time to get my sword or any other weapon.” 
Then the LORD gave the following instructions. Before Aaron goes into the Most Holy Place, he must have a bath and put on the priestly garments: the linen robe and shorts, the belt, and the turban. 
I will now end Assyria's power over you and break the chains that bind you.” 
Listen, my people, to my teaching, : and pay attention to what I say. 
Soon the servant said, ‘Your order has been carried out, sir, but there is room for more.’  
I will proclaim your greatness, my God and king; : I will thank you for ever and ever. 
Then all the peoples on earth will see that the LORD has chosen you to be his own people, and they will be afraid of you. 
Those who listen to me will be happy — : those who stay at my door every day, : waiting at the entrance to my home. 
“Let us free ourselves from their rule,” they say; : “let us throw off their control.” 
King Hezekiah took the letter from the messengers and read it. Then he went to the Temple, placed the letter there in the presence of the LORD, 
Stupid children can bring their parents to ruin. A nagging wife is like water going drip-drip-drip. 
And Jesus concluded, “The Sabbath was made for the good of human beings; they were not made for the Sabbath.  
So also will be the word that I speak — : it will not fail to do what I plan for it; : it will do everything I send it to do. 
so that it is no longer I who live, but it is Christ who lives in me. This life that I live now, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave his life for me. 
The law that you gave means more to me : than all the money in the world. 
But God said to him, ‘You fool! This very night you will have to give up your life; then who will get all these things you have kept for yourself?’ ” 
The finely woven belt, made of the same materials, was attached to the ephod so as to form one piece with it, as the LORD had commanded Moses. 
During the battle King Josiah was struck by Egyptian arrows. He ordered his servants, “Take me away; I'm badly hurt!” 
The manna stopped falling then, and the Israelites no longer had any. From that time on they ate food grown in Canaan. 
One of them went out in the fields to get some herbs. He found a wild vine, and picked as many gourds as he could carry. He brought them back and sliced them up into the stew, not knowing what they were. 
‘Look,’ he continued, ‘all the male goats that are mating are striped, spotted, and speckled. I am making this happen because I have seen all that Laban is doing to you. 
And God said, ‘For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and unite with his wife, and the two will become one.’  
with these instructions: “Go to the village there ahead of you; as you go in, you will find a colt tied up that has never been ridden. Untie it and bring it here.  
And so the whole universe was completed. 
but no uncircumcised man may eat it. If a foreigner has settled among you and wants to celebrate Passover to honour the LORD, you must first circumcise all the males of his household. He is then to be treated like a native-born Israelite and may join in the festival. 
Then in the presence of the people Solomon went and stood in front of the altar, where he raised his arms 
Later on, our ancestors who received the tent from their fathers carried it with them when they went with Joshua and took over the land from the nations that God drove out as they advanced. And it stayed there until the time of David. 
“And so I led them out of Egypt into the desert. 
and the two will become one.’ So they are no longer two, but one.  
Clouds and darkness surround him; : he rules with righteousness and justice. 
and then Aaron shall dedicate the Levites to me as a special gift from the Israelites, so that they may do my work. 
So Joshua did as the LORD had commanded, and he circumcised the Israelites at a place called Circumcision Hill. 
Absalom's officials came to the house and asked the woman, “Where are Ahimaaz and Jonathan?” : “They crossed the river,” she answered. : The men looked for them but could not find them, and so they returned to Jerusalem. 
Save me from my enemies, my God; : protect me from those who attack me! 
The angel also showed me the river of the water of life, sparkling like crystal, and coming from the throne of God and of the Lamb 
When a wicked person curses his enemy he is cursing himself. 
Joshua sent them home with his blessing and with these words: “You are going back home very rich, with a lot of livestock, silver, gold, bronze, iron, and many clothes. Share with your fellow-tribesmen what you took from your enemies.” Then they left for home. : Moses had given land east of the Jordan to one half of the tribe of Manasseh, but to the other half Joshua had given land west of the Jordan, along with the other tribes. 
The following day they killed animals as sacrifices, dedicating them to the LORD, and then gave them to the people to eat. In addition, they sacrificed a thousand bulls, a thousand rams, and a thousand lambs, which they burnt whole on the altar. They also brought the offerings of wine. 
Lamech had two wives, Adah and Zillah. 
LORD, you have made so many things! : How wisely you made them all! : The earth is filled with your creatures. 
Now I am sending these brothers and sisters, so that our boasting about you in this matter may not turn out to be empty words. But, just as I said, you will be ready with your help. 
If he comes suddenly, he must not find you asleep.  
Then the angel went away, and Cornelius called two of his house servants and a soldier, a religious man who was one of his personal attendants. 
You Gentiles by birth — called “the uncircumcised” by the Jews, who call themselves “the circumcised” (which refers to what men do to their bodies) — remember what you were in the past. 
So they went out and ran from the tomb, distressed and terrified. They said nothing to anyone, because they were afraid. 
You have been made clean already by the teaching I have given you.  
Laughter may hide sadness. When happiness is gone, sorrow is always there. 
“To me, Judah's royal palace is as beautiful as the land of Gilead and as the Lebanon Mountains; but I will make it a desolate place where no one lives. 
My prayer is that our fellowship with you as believers will bring about a deeper understanding of every blessing which we have in our life in union with Christ. 
If the place of worship is too far from your home for you to carry there the tithe of the produce that the LORD has blessed you with, then do this
On the third day and on the seventh the person who is ritually clean is to sprinkle the water on the unclean person. On the seventh day he is to purify the man, who, after washing his clothes and pouring water over himself, becomes ritually clean at sunset. 
From all the cities of Benjamin they came to Gibeah to fight against the other people of Israel. 
Seeing this miracle that Jesus had performed, the people there said, “Surely this is the Prophet who was to come into the world!” 
Even the sparrows have built a nest, : and the swallows have their own home; : they keep their young near your altars, :   LORD Almighty, my king and my God. 
Whenever you possibly can, do good to those who need it. 
from Trouble Valley up to Debir, and then turned north towards Gilgal, which faces Adummim Pass on the south side of the valley. It then went on to the springs of Enshemesh, out to Enrogel, 
A spirit attacks him with a sudden shout and throws him into a fit, so that he foams at the mouth; it keeps on hurting him and will hardly let him go! 
When God made his solemn promise, “They will never enter the land where I would have given them rest” — of whom was he speaking? Of those who rebelled. 
Do not show partiality to a poor person at his trial. 
There was a strong tower there, and every man and woman in the city, including the leaders, ran to it. They locked themselves in and went up to the roof. 
There is no difference between the one who sows and the one who waters; God will reward each one according to the work each has done. 
Perhaps they will pray to the LORD and turn from their evil ways, because the LORD has threatened this people with his terrible anger and fury.” 
Evil people do not know what justice is, but those who worship the LORD understand it well. 
Job went and sat by the rubbish heap and took a piece of broken pottery to scrape his sores. 
and complained: “It would have been better if we had died in front of the LORD's Tent along with our fellow-Israelites. 
Jesus said to him, “If you want to be perfect, go and sell all you have and give the money to the poor, and you will have riches in heaven; then come and follow me.” 
Because I am angry with you, I will let them deal with you in their anger. They will cut off your nose and your ears and kill your children. Yes, they will take your sons and daughters from you and burn them alive. 
Then I confessed my sins to you; : I did not conceal my wrongdoings. : I decided to confess them to you, : and you forgave all my sins. 
But Paul and Barnabas spoke out even more boldly: “It was necessary that the word of God should be spoken first to you. But since you reject it and do not consider yourselves worthy of eternal life, we will leave you and go to the Gentiles. 
I have a baptism to receive, and how distressed I am until it is over!  
Come to me, my lover, like a gazelle, : like a young stag on the mountains where spices grow.
It was faith that made Moses leave Egypt without being afraid of the king's anger. As though he saw the invisible God, he refused to turn back. 
Once again you will plant vineyards on the hills of Samaria, and those who plant them will eat what the vineyards produce. 
If I flew away beyond the east : or lived in the farthest place in the west, 
After Gideon's death the people of Israel were again unfaithful to God and worshipped the Baals. They made Baal-of-the-Covenant their god, 
When it happens, everyone will say, “He is our God! We have put our trust in him, and he has rescued us. He is the LORD! We have put our trust in him, and now we are happy and joyful because he has saved us.” 
Some of them were convinced by his words, but others would not believe. 
The Lord knows when our spirits are crushed in prison; 
The LORD is great and is to be highly praised; : he is to be honoured more than all the gods. 
so that the land which you consider the most precious of all lands would be a suitable home for your people. 
When any of my servants complained against me, : I would listen and treat them fairly. 
From Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ. : I was chosen and sent to help the faith of God's chosen people and to lead them to the truth taught by our religion, 
They do everything so that people will see them. Look at the straps with scripture verses on them which they wear on their foreheads and arms, and notice how large they are! Notice also how long are the tassels on their cloaks!  
“Stop chasing me!” Abner said. “Run after one of the soldiers and take what he has.” But Asahel kept on chasing him. 
You treat us as though you had never been our ruler, as though we had never been your people.
And Jesus explained to them what was said about himself in all the Scriptures, beginning with the books of Moses and the writings of all the prophets. 
Didn't the Ethiopians and the Libyans have large armies with many chariots and horsemen? But because you relied on the LORD, he gave you victory over them. 
On the 24th day of the ninth month of the second year that Darius was emperor, the LORD Almighty spoke again to the prophet Haggai. 
and the enemy who sowed the weeds is the Devil. The harvest is the end of the age, and the harvest workers are angels.  
Be sure, also, not to neglect the Levites, as long as you live in your land. 
Then tell them that I, the Sovereign LORD, am going to take all my people out of the nations where they have gone, gather them together, and bring them back to their own land. 
They still keep on sinning by making metal images to worship — idols of silver, designed by human minds, made by human hands. And then they say, “Offer sacrifices to them!” How can anyone kiss those idols — idols in the shape of bulls!  
so that, :   ‘They may look and look, :   yet not see; :   they may listen and listen, :   yet not understand. :   For if they did, they would turn to God, :   and he would forgive them.’ ” 
Put fifty loops on the first piece of the first set and fifty loops matching them on the last piece of the second set. 
The LORD had done the same thing for the Edomites, the descendants of Esau, who live in the hill country of Edom. He destroyed the Horites, so that the Edomites took over their land and settled there, where they still live. 
People will be selfish, greedy, boastful, and conceited; they will be insulting, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, and irreligious; 
I will live among the people of Israel, and I will be their God. 
If you deny yourself in order to accumulate wealth, you are only accumulating it for someone else. Others will use your riches to live in luxury. 
Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot bear to listen to my message.  
But it is much better to rebuke the person than to keep your anger bottled up. 
But righteous people are protected by God and will never suffer torment. 
Soon afterwards Mary got ready and hurried off to a town in the hill country of Judea. 
They went on until they came to Bethlehem. When they arrived, the whole town got excited, and the women there exclaimed, “Is this really Naomi?” 
If their fathers or brothers come to you and protest, you can say, ‘Please let us keep them, because we did not take them from you in battle to be our wives. And since you did not give them to us, you are not guilty of breaking your promise.’ ” 
Why did they stay behind with the sheep? : To listen to shepherds calling the flocks? : Yes, the tribe of Reuben was divided; : they could not decide whether to come. 
Seraiah, the son of Hilkiah and grandson of Meshullam. His ancestors included Zadok, Meraioth, and Ahitub, who was the High Priest. 
“This calls for wisdom and understanding. The seven heads are seven hills, on which the woman sits. They are also seven kings
She had a sister named Mary, who sat down at the feet of the Lord and listened to his teaching. 
Remember what I say, my child, and never forget what I tell you to do. 
Even the bandits who had been crucified with him insulted him in the same way. 
We are taking care not to stir up any complaints about the way we handle this generous gift. 
But whoever accepts his message confirms by this that God is truthful. 
but don't stay there yourselves. Keep on after the enemy and attack them from the rear; don't let them get to their cities! The LORD your God has given you victory over them.” 
After they had left, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph and said, “Herod will be looking for the child in order to kill him. So get up, take the child and his mother and escape to Egypt, and stay there until I tell you to leave.” 
“The more of you priests there are, the more you sin against me, and so I will turn your honour into disgrace. 
“I, the Sovereign LORD, tell you that I myself will look for my sheep and take care of them 
When the Philistines fled, they left their idols behind, and David gave orders for them to be burnt. 
There is no magic charm, no witchcraft, : That can be used against the nation of Israel. : Now people will say about Israel, : ‘Look what God has done!’ 
Rich people, famous people, and poor people all take pride in their fear of the Lord. 
for the immoral, for sexual perverts, for kidnappers, for those who lie and give false testimony or who do anything else contrary to sound doctrine. 
Bela had five sons: Ezbon, Uzzi, Uzziel, Jerimoth, and Iri. They were heads of families in the clan and were all famous soldiers. Their descendants included 22,034 men eligible for military service. 
Whoever does what God wants him to do is my brother, my sister, my mother.”
The look in your eyes, my sweetheart and bride, : and the necklace you are wearing : have stolen my heart. 
“We refuse to listen to what you have told us in the name of the LORD. 
I call to you in times of trouble, : because you answer my prayers. 
At the pagan places of worship, on the hills, and under every shady tree Ahaz offered sacrifices and burnt incense. 
They had followed Jesus while he was in Galilee and had helped him. Many other women who had come to Jerusalem with him were there also. 
The LORD commanded Moses 
When your enemies were carrying out their resolve to kill the babies of your holy people, there was one child who was abandoned but later rescued. Then you punished your enemies by killing a great number of their own children. You drowned their whole army at one time in the rushing waters. 
Stubbornness will get you into trouble in the end. If you live dangerously, it will kill you. 
“Now, mortal man, tell the Israelites that when someone good sins, the good he has done will not save him. If an evil person stops doing evil, he won't be punished, and if a good person starts sinning, his life will not be spared. 
Ladan, Ammihud, Elishama, 
So then, you must never think that you have made yourselves wealthy by your own power and strength. 
The right hind leg of the animal shall be given as a special contribution 
Wisdom will add years to your life. 
Make an altar of earth for me, and on it sacrifice your sheep and your cattle as offerings to be completely burnt and as fellowship offerings. In every place that I set aside for you to worship me, I will come to you and bless you. 
reveal yourself to the tribes of Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh. : Show us your strength; : come and save us! 
They dance and sing, : “In Zion is the source of all our blessings.”
The LORD has commanded that each of you is to gather as much of it as he needs, two litres for each member of his household.” 
From the beginning he has made good things for the good : and terrible things for sinners. 
The proper wine offering is two litres of wine with each bull, 1.5 litres with the ram, and one litre with each lamb. This is the regulation for the burnt offering for the first day of each month throughout the year. 
This is the list of the clans of Israel, with the number of those from each clan who returned from exile: : Parosh — 2,172 : Shephatiah — 372 : Arah — 652 : Pahath Moab (descendants of Jeshua and Joab) — 2,818 : Elam — 1,254 : Zattu — 845 : Zaccai — 760 : Binnui — 648 : Bebai — 628 : Azgad — 2,322 : Adonikam — 667 : Bigvai — 2,067 : Adin — 655 : Ater (also called Hezekiah) — 98 : Hashum — 328 : Bezai — 324 : Hariph — 112 : Gibeon — 95 
The LORD looks down from heaven : and sees the whole human race. 
Answer me when I pray, : O God, my defender! : When I was in trouble, you helped me. : Be kind to me now and hear my prayer. 
The wicked lay a trap for me, : but I have not disobeyed your commands. 
and so I endure everything for the sake of God's chosen people, in order that they too may obtain the salvation that comes through Christ Jesus and brings eternal glory. 
If you believe, you will receive whatever you ask for in prayer.” 
The king's agents controlled the export of horses from Musri and Cilicia,  
Hushai answered, “How could I? I am on the side of the one chosen by the LORD, by these people, and by all the Israelites. I will stay with you. 
Gad went to him, told him what the LORD had said, and asked, “Which is it to be? Three years of famine in your land or three months of running away from your enemies or three days of an epidemic in your land? Now think it over, and tell me what answer to take back to the LORD.” 
“If this happens, the woman's parents are to take the blood-stained wedding sheet that proves she was a virgin, and they are to show it in court to the town leaders. 
And this is what it means: number, God has numbered the days of your kingdom and brought it to an end; 
We must not be guilty of sexual immorality, as some of them were — and in one day 23,000 of them fell dead. 
But the magicians used magic, and they too made frogs come up on the land. 
The Assyrian emperor, instead of helping Ahaz, opposed him and caused him trouble. 
Any male of the priestly families may eat it, but it must be eaten in a holy place, because it is very holy. 
People who set traps fall into them themselves. 
What soldier ever has to pay his own expenses in the army? What farmer does not eat the grapes from his own vineyard? What shepherd does not use the milk from his own sheep? 
When you came out of Egypt, I promised that I would always be with you. I am still with you, so do not be afraid. 
You have condemned the heathen : and destroyed the wicked; : they will be remembered no more. 
He made the poles of acacia wood and covered them with gold. 
The Israelites walked through the sea on dry ground. But when the Egyptian chariots with their horses and drivers went into the sea, the LORD brought the water back, and it covered them. 
So then, dear friends, as you always obeyed me when I was with you, it is even more important that you obey me now while I am away from you. Keep on working with fear and trembling to complete your salvation, 
I have swept your sins away like a cloud. : Come back to me; I am the one who saves you.” 
Then she called Hathach, one of the palace eunuchs appointed as her servant by the king, and told him to go to Mordecai and find out what was happening and why. 
They also sent gold mice, one for each of the cities ruled by the five Philistine kings, both the fortified towns and the villages without walls. The large rock in the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh, on which they placed the LORD's Covenant Box, is still there as a witness to what happened. 
After he has become clean again, he must wait seven days 
Work as hard to find Wisdom as a farmer works to plough and sow his fields; then you can expect a good harvest. You will have to work at it for a while, but you will soon be enjoying what you have earned. 
I will reward them with long life; : I will save them.”
When all the money in Egypt and Canaan was spent, the Egyptians came to Joseph and said, “Give us food! Don't let us die. Do something! Our money is all gone.” 
So now I want you to listen to me; : let me tell you what I think. 
None of the people of Judah who are left and have come to Egypt to live will escape or survive. Not one of them will return to Judah, where they long to live once again. No one will return except a few refugees.” 
Azel had six sons: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan.
By deceit the king will win the support of those who have already abandoned their religion, but those who follow God will fight back. 
As I learn your righteous judgements, : I will praise you with a pure heart. 
At this, Daniel, who is also called Belteshazzar, was so alarmed that he could not say anything. The king said to him, “Belteshazzar, don't let the dream and its message alarm you.” : Belteshazzar replied, “Your Majesty, I wish that the dream and its explanation applied to your enemies and not to you. 
may your Kingdom come; :   may your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. 
When Mary heard this, she got up and hurried out to meet him. 
The Sovereign LORD says to his people, “When you became slaves, no money was paid for you; in the same way nothing will be paid to set you free. 
He waited another seven days and sent out the dove again. 
Joab heard what had happened. (He had supported Adonijah, but not Absalom.) So he fled to the Tent of the LORD's presence and took hold of the corners of the altar.  
It is through Christ that all of us, Jews and Gentiles, are able to come in the one Spirit into the presence of the Father. 
When Shelah was thirty years old, he had a son, Eber; 
I went down to the very roots of the mountains, : into the land whose gates lock shut for ever. : But you, O LORD my God, : brought me back from the depths alive. 
I am writing to you, my children, because your sins are forgiven for the sake of Christ. 
The righteous call to the LORD, and he listens; : he rescues them from all their troubles. 
To whom can the holy God be compared? : Is there anyone else like him? 
After hearing him, they all praised God. Then they said, “Brother Paul, you can see how many thousands of Jews have become believers, and how devoted they all are to the Law. 
The city of Jerusalem was filled with joy, because nothing like this had happened since the days of King Solomon, the son of David. 
“I will not go home or go to bed; 
When the time came to gather the grapes, he sent a slave to the tenants to receive from them his share of the harvest. But the tenants beat the slave and sent him back without a thing.  
Onam had two sons, Shammai and Jada, and Shammai also had two sons, Nadab and Abishur. 
“Look!” he said. “I see heaven opened and the Son of Man standing at the right-hand side of God!” 
But I will keep my covenant with your son Isaac, who will be born to Sarah about this time next year.” 
I am the LORD your God. Obey my laws and my commands. 
And so I will give him a place of honour, : a place among the great and powerful. : He willingly gave his life : and shared the fate of evil men. : He took the place of many sinners : and prayed that they might be forgiven.”
Large crowds came to him, bringing with them the lame, the blind, the crippled, the dumb, and many other sick people, whom they placed at Jesus' feet; and he healed them. 
And if they refuse to take the cup from your hand and drink from it, then tell them that the LORD Almighty has said that they will still have to drink from it. 
My grief has almost made me blind; : my arms and legs are as thin as shadows. 
A young man named Eutychus was sitting in the window, and as Paul kept on talking, Eutychus got sleepier and sleepier, until he finally went sound asleep and fell from the third storey to the ground. When they picked him up, he was dead. 
Keeping away from sin will please the Lord and make atonement for sin. 
In your land no woman will have a miscarriage or be without children. I will give you long lives. 
The Son of Man came, and he ate and drank, and you said, ‘Look at this man! He is a glutton and a drinker, a friend of tax collectors and other outcasts!’  
Then Jesus went to Capernaum, a town in Galilee, where he taught the people on the Sabbath. 
In the same way, we too were slaves of the ruling spirits of the universe before we reached spiritual maturity. 
And so he and all the Israelites took the Covenant Box up to Jerusalem with shouts of joy and the sound of trumpets. 
So if you are about to offer your gift to God at the altar and there you remember that your brother has something against you,  
He said to Balak, “Build seven altars here for me, and bring me seven bulls and seven rams.” 
“You remember what life was like in Egypt and what it was like to travel through the territory of other nations. 
“Praise him, you servants of the LORD! : Honour him, you descendants of Jacob! : Worship him, you people of Israel! 
Show respect for widows who really are all alone. 
When Jehoiakim son of Josiah was king of Judah, the LORD said to me, 
Moses went on up the mountain into the cloud. There he stayed for forty days and nights.
(The standard dry measure then in use equalled twenty litres.)
At that time Jesus was filled with joy by the Holy Spirit and said, “Father, Lord of heaven and earth! I thank you because you have shown to the unlearned what you have hidden from the wise and learned. Yes, Father, this was how you wanted it to happen. 
and offer it with the grain offering on the altar. In this way the priest shall perform the ritual of purification, and the person will be ritually clean. 
While this was going on, I was not in Jerusalem, because in the 32nd year that Artaxerxes was king of Babylon I had gone back to report to him. After some time I received his permission 
Miners dig the hardest rocks, : Dig mountains away at their base. 
The queen of Sheba heard of King Solomon's fame, and she travelled to Jerusalem to test him with difficult questions. She brought with her a large group of attendants, as well as camels loaded with spices, jewels, and a large amount of gold. When she and Solomon met, she asked him all the questions that she could think of. 
Offer the right sacrifices to the LORD, : and put your trust in him. 
I will cry for the people of Sibmah, even more than for the people of Jazer. City of Sibmah, you are like a vine whose branches reach across the Dead Sea and go as far as Jazer. But now your summer fruits and your grapes have been destroyed. 
And now send some men to Joppa for a certain man whose full name is Simon Peter. 
Much, indeed, in every way! In the first place, God trusted his message to the Jews. 
To such a man all women are desirable, and he can never get enough as long as he lives. 
“Your Majesty,” David said, “I take care of my father's sheep. Whenever a lion or a bear carries off a lamb, 
The time came for the LORD to take Elijah up to heaven in a whirlwind. Elijah and Elisha set out from Gilgal, 
The traitor had given the crowd a signal: “The man I kiss is the one you want. Arrest him!” 
The LORD said, “I will let the nations see my glory and show them how I use my power to carry out my just decisions. 
Tell them to throw him in prison and to put him on bread and water until I return safely.” 
When Gideon heard about the man's dream and what it meant, he fell to his knees and worshipped the LORD. Then he went back to the Israelite camp and said, “Get up! The LORD is giving you victory over the Midianite army!” 
Do what the king says, and don't make any rash promises to God. 
I will turn your festivals into funerals and change your glad songs into cries of grief. I will make you shave your heads and wear sackcloth, and you will be like parents mourning for their only child. That day will be bitter to the end. 
If the mildew breaks out again in the house after the stones have been removed and the house has been scraped and plastered, 
who was married to Levi's daughter Jochebed, who was born in Egypt. She bore Amram two sons, Aaron and Moses, and a daughter, Miriam. 
and said to him, “Run and find the arrows I'm going to shoot.” The boy ran, and Jonathan shot an arrow beyond him. 
unless it is his mother, father, son, daughter, brother, 
Stone them to death! They tried to lead you away from the LORD your God, who rescued you from Egypt, where you were slaves. 
Others said, “We have had to mortgage our fields and vineyards and houses to get enough corn to keep us from starving.” 
If you have to depend on someone else for your food, you are not really living your own life. You pollute yourself by accepting food from another. Begging is torture to the soul of any sensitive person.  
The LORD himself will lead you and be with you. He will not fail you or abandon you, so do not lose courage or be afraid.” 
the LORD had said, “Whoever stays on in the city will die in war or of starvation or disease. But those who go out and surrender to the Babylonians will not be killed; they will at least escape with their lives.” 
“Everyone will be purified by fire as a sacrifice is purified by salt. 
You can appoint officials in every province of the empire and order them to bring all these beautiful young women to your harem here in Susa, the capital city. Put them in the care of Hegai, the eunuch who is in charge of your women, and let them be given a beauty treatment. 
But Jesus said to the woman, “Your faith has saved you; go in peace.”
The same thing will happen to Babylon as happened to Sodom and Gomorrah, when I destroyed them and the nearby towns. No one will ever live there again. I, the LORD, have spoken. 
The children gather firewood, the men build fires, and the women mix dough to bake cakes for the goddess they call the Queen of Heaven. They also pour out wine offerings to other gods, in order to hurt me. 
In those days ten foreigners will come to one Jew and say, ‘We want to share in your destiny, because we have heard that God is with you.’ ”
At that time Jesus said, “Father, Lord of heaven and earth! I thank you because you have shown to the unlearned what you have hidden from the wise and learned.  
protect me from evil desires. 
The gospel keeps bringing blessings and is spreading throughout the world, just as it has among you ever since the day you first heard about the grace of God and came to know it as it really is. 
went southwards from the Akrabbim Pass and on to Zin. It ran south of Kadesh Barnea, past Hezron and up to Addar, turned towards Karka, 
The Lord's hand will come down on you now; you will be blind and will not see the light of day for a time.” : At once Elymas felt a dark mist cover his eyes, and he walked about trying to find someone to lead him by the hand. 
You that live in Aroer, : stand by the road and wait; : ask those who are running away, : find out from them what has happened. 
He helped me out of danger; : he saved me because he was pleased with me. 
I looked closely inside and saw domesticated and wild animals, reptiles, and wild birds. 
The LORD is mighty in Zion; : he is supreme over all the nations. 
“All winged insects are unclean; do not eat them. 
He gave two wagons and four oxen to the Gershonites, 
In all, 242 members of this clan were heads of families. : Amashsai, the son of Azarel and grandson of Ahzai. His ancestors included Meshillemoth and Immer. 
Shuppim and Hosah were allotted the west gate and the Shallecheth Gate on the upper road. Guard duty was divided into assigned periods, one after another. 
Then Elisha went to them and said, “You are on the wrong road; this is not the town you are looking for. Follow me, and I will lead you to the man you are after.” And he led them to Samaria. 
Their corpses will not be buried, but will lie there rotting and stinking; and the mountains will be red with blood. 
Praise the LORD! : Praise the LORD, my soul! 
I foresee that Israel's future : Will bring her no misfortune or trouble. : The LORD their God is with them; : They proclaim that he is their king. 
They said to me, ‘We don't know what has happened to this man Moses, who brought us out of Egypt; so make us a god to lead us.’ 
Save me from the insults I fear; : how wonderful are your judgements! 
When you pass through deep waters, I will be with you; : your troubles will not overwhelm you. : When you pass through fire, you will not be burnt; : the hard trials that come will not hurt you. 
The new Temple will be more splendid than the old one, and there I will give my people prosperity and peace.” The LORD Almighty has spoken. 
The Sovereign LORD says: “I will make you as desolate as ruined cities where no one lives. I will cover you with the water of the ocean depths. 
“Calm down,” Tobit said to her. “He will get there and back safely, and with your own eyes you will see him return home safe and sound. 
Before Aaron's time such beautiful things were never seen. No one but Aaron and his descendants ever wore them, or ever will. 
Then Jehu ordered the priest in charge of the sacred robes to bring the robes out and give them to the worshippers. 
You teach others — why don't you teach yourself? You preach, “Do not steal” — but do you yourself steal? 
The field and the cave in it were bought from the Hittites. Bury me there.” 
although all that corrosion will not disappear in the flames.  
These are the things you should do: speak the truth to one another. In the courts, give real justice — the kind that brings peace. 
For those who receive that rest which God promised will rest from their own work, just as God rested from his. 
“The Pharisee stood apart by himself and prayed,    ‘I thank you, God, that I am not greedy, dishonest, or an adulterer, like everybody else. I thank you that I am not like that tax collector over there.  
They said to each other, “Wasn't it like a fire burning in us when he talked to us on the road and explained the Scriptures to us?” 
The man told me that the room which faced south was for the priests who served in the Temple, 
And people drink evil as if it were water; : yes, they are corrupt; they are worthless. 
Noah, who was a farmer, was the first man to plant a vineyard. 
Do you think you are any better than Balak son of Zippor, king of Moab? He never challenged Israel, did he? Did he ever go to war against us? 
Although there is no corn left, and the grapevines, fig trees, pomegranates, and olive trees have not yet produced, yet from now on I will bless you.” 
The longer you argue, the more useless it is, and you are no better off. 
The LORD chose from all your tribes the tribe of Levi to serve him as priests for ever. 
Any food which could normally be eaten, but on which water from such a pot has been poured, will be unclean, and anything drinkable in such a pot is unclean. 
There are people who think they are so good — oh, how good they think they are! 
A drunken fool can lose his temper and hurt himself. His drinking makes him weak and an easy target for angry blows. 
Then Holofernes ordered his men, who were waiting in his tent, to seize Achior, take him to Bethulia, and hand him over to the Israelites. 
They last for all time; : they were given in truth and righteousness. 
No one may sell or buy back what he has unconditionally dedicated to the LORD, whether it is a human being, an animal, or land. It belongs permanently to the LORD. 
“Now treat me as you please. : Take my life away and free me from this world; : let my body return to the earth. : I would be better off dead. : I am tormented by insults I don't deserve, : and weighed down with despair. : Lord, give the command — : bring all my troubles to an end, : take me to my eternal rest. : Don't reject my prayer. : I would rather die than live in misery : and face such cruel insults.” 
Before he makes the woman drink the water, which may then cause her bitter pain, 
On the east, six guards were on duty each day, on the north, four, and on the south, four. Four guards were stationed at the storerooms daily, two at each storeroom. 
to kill men and women, : to slay old and young, : to kill boys and girls, 
Such creatures must be considered unclean. You must not eat them or even touch their dead bodies. 
These 288 men were divided according to families into 24 groups of twelve, with a leader in charge of each group. This is the order in which they were on duty: : 1. : Joseph of the family of Asaph : 2. : Gedaliah : 3. : Zaccur : 4. : Zeri : 5. : Nethaniah : 6. : Bukkiah : 7. : Asharelah : 8. : Jeshaiah : 9. : Mattaniah : 10. : Shimei : 11. : Uzziel : 12. : Hashabiah : 13. : Shebuel : 14. : Mattithiah : 15. : Jerimoth : 16. : Hananiah : 17. : Joshbekashah : 18. : Hanani : 19. : Mallothi : 20. : Eliathah : 21. : Hothir : 22. : Giddalti : 23. : Mahazioth : 24. : Romamti Ezer
It was Jotham who built the North Gate of the Temple and did extensive work on the city wall in the area of Jerusalem called Ophel. 
They shave their heads for you : And dress themselves in sackcloth. : Their hearts are bitter as they weep. 
I ordered the Levites to purify themselves and to go and guard the gates to make sure that the Sabbath was kept holy. : Remember me, O God, for this also, and spare me because of your great love. 
From now on only the Levites will take care of the Tent and bear the full responsibility for it. This is a permanent rule that applies also to your descendants. The Levites shall have no permanent property in Israel, 
At that time two prophets, Haggai and Zechariah son of Iddo, began to speak in the name of the God of Israel to the Jews who lived in Judah and Jerusalem. 
Take him ten loaves of bread, some cakes, and a jar of honey. Ask him what is going to happen to our son, and he will tell you.” 
I pray that your love will keep on growing more and more, together with true knowledge and perfect judgement, 
So Jesus said, “Well, then, pay the Emperor what belongs to the Emperor, and pay God what belongs to God.” : And they were amazed at Jesus. 
I wish I had a place to stay in the desert : where I could get away from my people. : They are all unfaithful, : a mob of traitors. 
They make light of a wise person's death, but the Lord will soon be laughing at them. When they die, they will not be given an honourable burial. Even the dead will hold them in scorn and disgust for ever. 
We must not put the Lord to the test, as some of them did — and they were killed by snakes. 
commanding them to go with him to the place of worship at Gibeon. They went there because that was where the Tent of the LORD's presence was located, which Moses, the LORD's servant, had made in the wilderness. 
But I will not have pity on them; I will do to them what they have done to others.” 
Anyone who touches anything on which the man sat is unclean until evening. Anyone who carries anything on which the man sat must wash his clothes and have a bath, and he remains unclean until evening. 
Then he said to them, “If any one of you had a son or an ox that happened to fall in a well on a Sabbath, would you not pull them out at once on the Sabbath itself?” 
The LORD, the God of heaven, brought me from the home of my father and from the land of my relatives, and he solemnly promised me that he would give this land to my descendants. He will send his angel before you, so that you can get a wife there for my son. 
I sowed the seed, Apollos watered the plant, but it was God who made the plant grow. 
“But what will you do when your food and wine are gone?” Holofernes asked. “Where will we get more food for you? There are no Israelites here in our camp.” 
It was not done by God, who calls you. 
There he built his Temple : like his home in heaven; : he made it firm like the earth itself, : secure for all time. 
The water did not start going down for 150 days.
God was angry when he saw it, : so he rejected his people completely. 
Then David and all his men crossed the Jordan. He kissed Barzillai and gave him his blessing, and Barzillai went back home. 
“Teacher,” they asked, “when will this be? And what will happen in order to show that the time has come for it to take place?” 
But this did not happen to the one whom God raised from death. 
The Jewish leaders tried to arrest Jesus, because they knew that he had told this parable against them. But they were afraid of the crowd, so they left him and went away. 
So then, we must always aim at those things that bring peace and that help to strengthen one another. 
The promises of God through his prophets are for you, and you share in the covenant which God made with your ancestors. As he said to Abraham, ‘Through your descendants I will bless all the people on earth.’ 
Then I heard a voice saying to me, ‘Get up, Peter; kill and eat!’  
They also organized the priests and the Levites for the temple services in Jerusalem, according to the instructions contained in the book of Moses. 
The fire on the altar must be kept burning and never allowed to go out. Every morning the priest shall put firewood on it, arrange the burnt offering on it, and burn the fat of the fellowship offering. 
Listen, then, if you have ears!” 
They pay me back evil for good, : and I sink in despair. 
to preach the message, to insist upon proclaiming it (whether the time is right or not), to convince, reproach, and encourage, as you teach with all patience. 
“My people, some sacrifices you burn completely on the altar, and some you are permitted to eat. But what I, the LORD, say is that you might as well eat them all. 
Early the next morning Abraham gave Hagar some food and a leather bag full of water. He put the child on her back and sent her away. She left and wandered about in the wilderness of Beersheba. 
He also said to them, “Pay attention to what you hear! The same rules you use to judge others will be used by God to judge you — but with even greater severity.  
Esau's wife Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah son of Zibeon, bore him three sons: Jeush, Jalam, and Korah. 
The LORD Almighty says to the priests, “This command is for you
Israel, how happy you are! : There is no one like you, : a nation saved by the LORD. : The LORD himself is your shield and your sword, : to defend you and give you victory. : Your enemies will come begging for mercy, : and you will trample them down.
Make sure you obey the law that Moses commanded you: love the LORD your God, do his will, obey his commandments, be faithful to him, and serve him with all your heart and soul.” 
In the same way, the Lord has ordered that those who preach the gospel should get their living from it. 
Help your relatives and they will protect you like a strong city wall, but if you quarrel with them, they will close their doors to you. 
He said to them, “There is a large harvest, but few workers to gather it in. Pray to the owner of the harvest that he will send out workers to gather in his harvest.  
Lachish, Bozkath, Eglon, 
The clan of Hassenaah built the Fish Gate. They put the beams and the gates in place, and put in the bolts and bars for locking the gate. 
You stood aside on that day : when enemies broke down their gates. : You were as bad as those strangers : who carried off Jerusalem's wealth : and divided it among themselves. 
If our conscience condemns us, we know that God is greater than our conscience and that he knows everything. 
The LORD said to Moses and Aaron, “These are the Passover regulations: no foreigner shall eat the Passover meal, 
The LORD became so angry with the people of Jerusalem and Judah that he banished them from his sight. : Zedekiah rebelled against King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia, 
Before he had finished speaking, another servant came and said, “Three bands of Chaldean raiders attacked us, took away the camels, and killed all your servants except me. I am the only one who escaped to tell you.” 
I will remember your great deeds, LORD; : I will recall the wonders you did in the past. 
They made twenty frames for the south side 
At once the Spirit made him go into the desert, 
And he went on to say to them all, “Watch out and guard yourselves from every kind of greed; because a person's true life is not made up of the things he owns, no matter how rich he may be.” 
I am ashamed to admit that we were too timid to do those things! : But if anyone dares to boast about something — I am talking like a fool — I will be just as daring. 
The younger one said to him, ‘Father, give me my share of the property now.’ So the man divided his property between his two sons.  
I will be glad to spend all I have, and myself as well, in order to help you. Will you love me less because I love you so much? 
The donkey replied, “Am I not the same donkey on which you have ridden all your life? Have I ever treated you like this before?” : “No,” he answered. 
How can you be generous with others if you are stingy with yourself, if you are not willing to enjoy your own wealth? 
and he sent you out with orders to destroy those wicked people of Amalek. He told you to fight until you had killed them all. 
Wicked people are always hungry for evil; they have no mercy on anyone. 
They assembled before Moses and Aaron and said to them, “You have gone too far! All the members of the community belong to the LORD, and the LORD is with all of us. Why, then, Moses, do you set yourself above the LORD's community?” 
Then she shouted, “Samson! The Philistines are coming!” He woke up and thought, “I'll get loose and go free, as always.” He did not know that the LORD had left him. 
He used parables to teach them many things, saying to them
The servant ran to meet her and said, “Please give me a drink of water from your jar.” 
And so I will weep for everyone in Moab and for the people of Kir Heres. 
“On the day that you were gathered at Mount Sinai, you begged not to hear the LORD speak again or to see his fiery presence any more, because you were afraid you would die. 
Then they made a cover for the Tent out of eleven pieces of cloth made of goats' hair. 
so that even God's people turn to them : and eagerly believe whatever they say. 
Amon was 22 years old when he became king of Judah, and he ruled in Jerusalem for two years. 
Do not disgrace your father by having intercourse with any of his other wives. 
The LORD says about these people, “They love to run away from me, and they will not control themselves. So I am not pleased with them. I will remember the wrongs they have done and punish them because of their sins.” 
There you will never go hungry or ever be in need. Its rocks have iron in them, and from its hills you can mine copper. 
Gideon and his hundred men came to the edge of the camp a short while before midnight, just after the guard had been changed. Then they blew the trumpets and broke the jars they were holding, 
And he said to them, “I am telling you the truth: you will see heaven open and God's angels going up and coming down on the Son of Man.”
They have been severely tested by the troubles they went through; but their joy was so great that they were extremely generous in their giving, even though they are very poor. 
If a person does not keep confidences, he is cruel; he will not hesitate to hurt you or have you put in jail. 
I tell you this now before it happens, so that when it does happen, you will believe that ‘I Am Who I Am.’  
Then the angel said to me, “Write this: happy are those who have been invited to the wedding feast of the Lamb.” And the angel added, “These are the true words of God.” 
Then Joshua built on Mount Ebal an altar to the LORD, the God of Israel. 
Glory and majesty surround him, : power and joy fill his Temple. 
“The Temple is now greatly honoured, but then everyone who passes by it will be amazed and will ask, ‘Why did the LORD do this to this land and this Temple?’ 
He will invade a wealthy province without warning and will do things that none of his ancestors ever did. Then he will divide among his followers the goods and property he has captured in war. He will make plans to attack fortresses, but his time will soon run out. 
For the blood of bulls and goats can never take away sins. 
Its branches were strong, : and grew to be royal sceptres. : The vine grew tall enough to reach the clouds; : everyone saw how leafy and tall it was. 
All these tribes were descended from Esau. 
So they dropped a line with a weight tied to it and found that the water was forty metres deep; a little later they did the same and found that it was thirty metres deep. 
How happy I am that I can depend on you completely!
Laban went on, “If you ill-treat my daughters or if you marry other women, even though I don't know about it, remember that God is watching us. 
But you think I am lying — : you think I can't tell right from wrong.
Burn up any meat or bread that is left over. 
We know, Your Majesty, how much you want to capture him; so come to our territory, and we will make sure that you catch him.” 
Hazor will be made a desert for ever, a place where only jackals live. No one will ever live there again. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
So he came to Moses, bringing with him Moses' wife Zipporah, who had been left behind, 
save me from those who in this life have all they want. : Punish them with the sufferings you have stored up for them; : may there be enough for their children : and some left over for their children's children! 
but the seventh day is a day of rest dedicated to me. On that day no one is to work — neither you, your children, your slaves, your animals, nor the foreigners who live in your country. Your slaves must rest just as you do. 
because they could not bear the order which said, “If even an animal touches the mountain, it must be stoned to death.” 
Then Jesus said to them, “Bring some of the fish you have just caught.” 
My skin hangs loose on my bones; : I have barely escaped with my life. 
and stood behind Jesus, by his feet, crying and wetting his feet with her tears. Then she dried his feet with her hair, kissed them, and poured the perfume on them. 
he and all his people became terrified. 
went on to Azmon, and followed the stream on the border of Egypt to the Mediterranean Sea, where the border ended. That was the southern border of Judah. 
When he is aroused, he is fierce; : no one would dare to stand before him. 
and another scripture says, “The Lord knows that the thoughts of the wise are worthless.” 
Come here and predict what will happen, : so that we will know it when it takes place. : Explain to the court the events of the past, : and tell us what they mean. 
Now then, I, the Sovereign LORD, am telling you that I will get troops to attack you with swords, and they will kill your people and your animals. 
“Meshech and Tubal are there, with the graves of their soldiers all around. They are all uncircumcised, all killed in battle. Yet once they terrified the living. 
Daniel soon showed that he could do better work than the other supervisors or the governors. Because he was so outstanding, the king considered putting him in charge of the whole empire. 
Curses cannot hurt you unless you deserve them. They are like birds that fly by and never settle. 
But the angel said to him, “Don't be afraid, Zechariah! God has heard your prayer, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son. You are to name him John. 
“I, the LORD Almighty, planted Israel and Judah; but now I threaten them with disaster. They have brought this on themselves because they have done wrong; they have made me angry by offering sacrifices to Baal.” 
LORD, you will always be proclaimed as God; : all generations will remember you. 
With whom does God consult : in order to know and understand : and to learn how things should be done? 
If I have any success at all, : you hunt me down like a lion; : to hurt me you even work miracles. 
Go and preach, ‘The Kingdom of heaven is near!’  
Everyone drove them away with shouts, : as if they were shouting at thieves. 
Your name will no longer be Abram, but Abraham, because I am making you the ancestor of many nations. 
Ladan had three sons: Jehiel, Zetham, and Joel, 
Don't give yourself to prostitutes, or you may lose everything you own. 
Zadok son of Ahitub and Ahimelech son of Abiathar were priests; Seraiah was the court secretary; 
which is the secret he hid through all past ages from all the human race but has now revealed to his people. 
The people of Syria bought your merchandise and your many products. They gave emeralds, purple cloth, embroidery, fine linen, coral, and rubies in payment for your wares. 
divide the territory into three parts, each with a city that can be easily reached. Then anyone who kills someone will be able to escape to one of them for protection. 
The entire valley, where the dead are buried and refuse is thrown, and all the fields above the brook of Kidron as far as the Horse Gate to the east, will be sacred to me. The city will never again be torn down or destroyed.”
Do not disobey me in any way. I am your king; remember that, and carry out without delay every order that I have given you.” 
You must also appoint other officials and take a fifth of the crops during the seven years of plenty. 
God knows which people are worthless; : he sees all their evil deeds. 
He flew swiftly on his winged creature; : he travelled on the wings of the wind. 
“The LORD has greatly blessed my master and made him a rich man. He has given him flocks of sheep and goats, cattle, silver, gold, male and female slaves, camels, and donkeys. 
The priests were assigned their duties by clans, and the Levites twenty years of age or older were assigned theirs by work groups. 
and evil persons and impostors will keep on going from bad to worse, deceiving others and being deceived themselves. 
Such are the people who come to God, : who come into the presence of the God of Jacob. 
And now the light in the sky is dazzling, : too bright for us to look at it; : and the sky has been swept clean by the wind. 
He died and was buried in David's City, and his son Rehoboam succeeded him as king.
As they left the boat, people recognized Jesus at once. 
the LORD said to Moses, 
There she saw the new king standing by the column at the entrance of the Temple, as was the custom. He was surrounded by the officers and the trumpeters, and the people were all shouting joyfully and blowing trumpets. Athaliah tore her clothes in distress and shouted, “Treason! Treason!” 
“Who can understand the human heart? : There is nothing else so deceitful; : it is too sick to be healed. 
You defeated them at Endor, : and their bodies rotted on the ground. 
They have ears, but cannot hear, : and noses, but cannot smell. 
Never correct conceited people; they will hate you for it. But if you correct the wise, they will respect you. 
When you thought you saw me eating, I did not really eat anything; it only seemed as if I did. 
For almost two years it grew steadily worse until finally the king died in agony. His subjects did not light a bonfire in mourning for him as had been done for his ancestors. 
“It was already midnight when the cry rang out, ‘Here is the bridegroom! Come and meet him!’  
For seven days the priests are to consecrate the altar and make it ready for use. 
“I make a vow by my own name — the LORD is speaking — that I will richly bless you. Because you did this and did not keep back your only son from me, 
From Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus — : To all God's people in Philippi who are in union with Christ Jesus, including the church leaders and helpers
Elon, Timnah, Ekron, 
There are two nations that I detest, and a third that does not even deserve to be called a nation. 
“Proclaim it in the towns of Egypt, : in Migdol, Memphis, and Tahpanhes: : ‘Get ready to defend yourselves; : all you have will be destroyed in war! 
I told Seraiah, “When you get to Babylon, be sure to read aloud to the people everything that is written here. 
Judith was left alone in the tent with Holofernes who was lying drunk on his bed. 
The LORD appeared to Abraham at the sacred trees of Mamre. As Abraham was sitting at the entrance of his tent during the hottest part of the day, 
You are to build a fire out of dried human excrement, bake bread on the fire, and eat it where everyone can see you.” 
They will be ruthless and show no mercy to anyone, young or old. 
The end of my life is near. I can hardly breathe; : there is nothing left for me but the grave. 
They are all stubborn rebels, hard as bronze and iron. They are all corrupt, going round and spreading gossip. 
If what was built on the foundation survives the fire, the builder will receive a reward. 
Nothing clean can ever come : from anything as unclean as human beings. 
Accept their verdict and follow their instructions in every detail. 
Anyone away from home is like a bird away from its nest. 
A prophet came to Eli with this message from the LORD: “When your ancestor Aaron and his family were slaves of the king of Egypt, I revealed myself to Aaron. 
so he said to him, “Because you have disobeyed the LORD's command, a lion will kill you as soon as you leave me.” And as soon as he left, a lion came along and killed him. 
Azgad — 1,222 
Women should learn in silence and all humility. 
The famine was so severe that there was no food anywhere, and the people of Egypt and Canaan became weak with hunger. 
They went back into the city quietly, like soldiers who are ashamed because they are running away from battle. 
“My holy city is like a woman who suddenly gives birth to a child, without ever going into labour. 
This clan was to camp on the south side of the Tent, 
I will always keep my promise to him, : and my covenant with him will last for ever. 
The testimony of a liar is not believed, but the word of someone who thinks matters through is accepted. 
some of the heavenly beings saw that these young women were beautiful, so they took the ones they liked. 
Show your love to them, so that all the churches will be sure of it and know that we are right in boasting about you.
Happy are those who obey his commands, : who always do what is right. 
You will be sorry that you ever worshipped trees and planted sacred gardens.  
For his own use, David built houses in David's City. He also prepared a place for God's Covenant Box and put up a tent for it. 
(Mount Hermon is called Sirion by the Sidonians, and Senir by the Amorites.) 
He recognized it and said, “Yes, it is his! Some wild animal has killed him. My son Joseph has been torn to pieces!” 
People will wander from the Dead Sea to the Mediterranean and then on from the north to the east. They will look everywhere for a message from the LORD, but they will not find it. 
Then Jesus called the crowd and his disciples to him. “If anyone wants to come with me,” he told them, “he must forget self, carry his cross, and follow me.  
One day she sent for Barak son of Abinoam from the city of Kedesh in Naphtali and said to him, “The LORD, the God of Israel, has given you this command: ‘Take 10,000 men from the tribes of Naphtali and Zebulun and lead them to Mount Tabor. 
Yet even then, if he lets me speak, : I can't believe he would listen to me. 
He will conquer his enemies in Edom : And make their land his property, : While Israel continues victorious. 
If this is how I drive them out, how do your followers drive them out? Your own followers prove that you are wrong!  
In the fifth year of the reign of Joram son of Ahab as king of Israel, Jehoram son of Jehoshaphat became king of Judah 
Israel is no stronger than Samaria, its capital city, and Samaria is no stronger than King Pekah. : “If your faith is not enduring, you will not endure.” 
The people replied, “We would never leave the LORD to serve other gods! 
Camp as close to her house as you can get, 
Kohath had four sons: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. 
So their answer to Jesus was, “We don't know.” : Jesus said to them, “Neither will I tell you, then, by what right I do these things.”
When the people left Sinai, the holy mountain, they travelled for three days. The LORD's Covenant Box always went ahead of them to find a place for them to camp. 
Then King Ahaziah of Israel offered to let his men sail with Jehoshaphat's men, but Jehoshaphat refused the offer. 
But you, brothers and sisters, must not get tired of doing good. 
This sin on his part brought about the ruin and total destruction of his dynasty.
for kings and all others who are in authority, that we may live a quiet and peaceful life with all reverence towards God and with proper conduct. 
He healed them with his command : and saved them from the grave. 
You are like a raging flood, : But you will not be the most important, : For you slept with my concubine : And dishonoured your father's bed. 
While Peter was wondering about the meaning of this vision, the men sent by Cornelius had learnt where Simon's house was, and they were now standing in front of the gate. 
Cush had a son named Nimrod, who became the world's first great conqueror. 
But your donkey saw me and turned aside three times. If it hadn't, I would have killed you and spared the donkey.” 
To fear the Lord is the first step to Wisdom. : Wisdom is given to the faithful in their mothers' wombs. 
Although she was mine, Oholah continued to be a prostitute and was full of lust for her lovers from Assyria. 
The LORD said to Moses, 
When the servant caught up with them, he repeated these words. 
Then the men of Judah came to Hebron and anointed David as king of Judah. : When David heard that the people of Jabesh in Gilead had buried Saul, 
And so I will make these people stumble and fall. Parents and children will die, and so will friends and neighbours.” 
As a well keeps its water fresh, so Jerusalem keeps its evil fresh. I hear violence and destruction in the city; sickness and wounds are all I see. 
There were Kiriath Baal (or Kiriath Jearim) and Rabbah: two cities, along with the towns round them. 
When Noah was sober again and learnt what his youngest son had done to him, 
All these things go on for ever, : and all of them have their purpose. 
Now the Ishmaelites had taken Joseph to Egypt and sold him to Potiphar, one of the king's officers, who was the captain of the palace guard. 
You heard me say to you, ‘I am leaving, but I will come back to you.’ If you loved me, you would be glad that I am going to the Father; for he is greater than I.  
The stories that foolish people tell are offensive, and they make jokes about the worst kinds of sin. 
Work on the Temple had been stopped and had remained at a standstill until the second year of the reign of Darius, emperor of Persia.
He brought a famine on the people, and many of them died because of his persistence. 
With a word of command I dry up the ocean. 
They said, “We have come here to tie you up, so that we can hand you over to them.” : Samson said, “Give me your word that you won't kill me yourselves.” 
“Yes, I do,” Raphael replied. “I have been there many times, and I know all the roads well. I used to stay with our relative Gabael, who lives there in the town of Rages. It takes at least two days to travel there from Ecbatana, the capital city, because Rages is up in the mountains.” 
He asked, “Mortal man, do you see that? You will see even more disgusting things.” 
He went into the house of God, took the bread offered to God, ate it, and gave it also to his men. Yet it is against our Law for anyone except the priests to eat that bread.” 
For those who do such things are not serving Christ our Lord, but their own appetites. By their fine words and flattering speech they deceive innocent people. 
Abraham agreed and weighed out the amount that Ephron had mentioned in the hearing of the people — 400 pieces of silver, according to the standard weights used by the merchants. 
All of us often make mistakes. But if a person never makes a mistake in what he says, he is perfect and is also able to control his whole being. 
I will scatter the Egyptians throughout the world. Then they will know that I am the LORD.”
For if God's gift depends on the Law, then it no longer depends on his promise. However, it was because of his promise that God gave that gift to Abraham. 
and Tirzah — 31 kings in all.
The wicked sprout like weeds in the sun, : like weeds that spread all through the garden. 
How happy I am because of your promises — : as happy as someone who finds rich treasure. 
When that time comes, you will complain bitterly because of your king, whom you yourselves chose, but the LORD will not listen to your complaints.” 
So we are to use our different gifts in accordance with the grace that God has given us. If our gift is to speak God's message, we should do it according to the faith that we have; 
In just the same way your  Father in heaven does not want any of these little ones to be lost. 
He kept the Law of the Most High and made a covenant with him, a covenant marked on his body. When he was put to the test, he was found faithful. 
If you fall into the habit of using offensive language, you will never break yourself of it as long as you live. 
and have put on the new self. This is the new being which God, its Creator, is constantly renewing in his own image, in order to bring you to a full knowledge of himself. 
This time tomorrow I will cause a heavy hailstorm, such as Egypt has never known in all its history. 
Mephibosheth had a young son named Mica. All the members of Ziba's family became servants of Mephibosheth. 
When David noticed them whispering to each other, he realized that the child had died. So he asked them, “Is the child dead?” : “Yes, he is,” they answered. 
Raphael replied, “My name is Azarias, and I am the son of the older Ananias, one of your relatives.” 
The LORD said to him, “Some day I am going to do something to the people of Israel that is so terrible that everyone who hears about it will be stunned. 
From east to west, all who hear of their fate : shudder and tremble with fear. 
Here he will suddenly remove the cloud of sorrow that has been hanging over all the nations. 
By then a strong wind was blowing and stirring up the water. 
Don't listen to Hezekiah! The emperor of Assyria commands you to come out of the city and surrender. You will all be allowed to eat grapes from your own vines and figs from your own trees, and to drink water from your own wells — 
Such a sin should be punished by death; : it denies Almighty God. 
Their hair is the sign of their dedication to God, and so they must not defile themselves by going near a corpse, 
Think back now. Name a single case : where a righteous person met with disaster. 
But to this day you have not humbled yourselves. You have not honoured me or lived according to all the laws that I gave you and your ancestors. 
That night the LORD appeared to him in a dream and asked him, “What would you like me to give you?” 
The righteous are guided and protected by the LORD, : but the evil are on the way to their doom.
When the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and praised the Lord's message; and those who had been chosen for eternal life became believers. 
It is useless, useless, said the Philosopher. Life is useless, all useless. 
You can be sure that whoever gives even a drink of cold water to one of the least of these my followers because he is my follower, will certainly receive a reward.”
Babies will no longer die in infancy, and all people will live out their life span. Those who live to be a hundred will be considered young. To die before that would be a sign that I had punished them. 
The Philistines arrived at the Valley of Rephaim and occupied it. 
So they bribed some men to say, “We heard him speaking against Moses and against God!” 
Hear my prayer, LORD, : and listen to my cry; : come to my aid when I weep. : Like all my ancestors : I am only your guest for a little while. 
Now, on the advice of Mordecai, Esther had kept it secret that she was Jewish. 
Don't sacrifice your children in the fires on your altars; and don't let your people practise divination or look for omens or use spells 
It is not because you are good and do what is right that the LORD is letting you take their land. He will drive them out because they are wicked and because he intends to keep the promise that he made to your ancestors, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. 
People laugh at me all day long; I am a joke to them all. 
Barak called the tribes of Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh, and 10,000 men followed him. Deborah went with him. 
and directed them and their descendants to observe the days of Purim at the proper time, just as they had adopted rules for the observance of fasts and times of mourning. This was commanded by both Mordecai and Queen Esther. 
Jesus answered, “The scripture says, ‘Worship the Lord your God and serve only him!’ ” 
While I was praying, Gabriel, whom I had seen in the earlier vision, came flying down to where I was. It was the time for the evening sacrifice to be offered. 
“To the angel of the church in Smyrna write: :   “This is the message from the one who is the first and the last, who died and lived again.  
And now that I have told you, your hearts are full of sadness.  
So David summoned the people of Gibeon and said to them, “What can I do for you? I want to make up for the wrong that was done to you, so that you will bless the LORD's people.” 
We know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding, so that we know the true God. We live in union with the true God — in union with his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God, and this is eternal life. 
On the stones covered with plaster write clearly every word of God's laws.” 
There was a man named Joseph from Arimathea, a town in Judea. He was a good and honourable man, who was waiting for the coming of the Kingdom of God. Although he was a member of the Council, he had not agreed with their decision and action. 
Joseph put Ephraim at Jacob's left and Manasseh at his right. 
But unlike his father, he did not become humble and turn to the LORD; he was even more sinful than his father had been. 
those who deal in material goods, as though they were not fully occupied with them. For this world, as it is now, will not last much longer. 
I will reward you richly and do anything you say. Please come and curse these people for me.” 
How can we find the power to praise him? : He is greater than all his creation. 
Nahash answered, “I will make a treaty with you on one condition: I will put out everyone's right eye and so bring disgrace on all Israel.” 
Peter was still down in the courtyard when one of the High Priest's servant women came by. 
This is a true saying. : I want you to give special emphasis to these matters, so that those who believe in God may be concerned with giving their time to doing good deeds, which are good and useful for everyone. 
“LORD God of Heaven! You are great, and we stand in fear of you. You faithfully keep your covenant with those who love you and do what you command. 
One last time they will lie down rich, : and when they wake up, they will find their wealth gone. 
They will speak of your glory and majesty, : and I will meditate on your wonderful deeds. 
We know that God does not listen to sinners; he does listen to people who respect him and do what he wants them to do. 
Taanach, Megiddo, 
These are the blessings that Moses, the man of God, pronounced on the people of Israel before he died. 
No one will ever live there again. No wandering Arab will ever pitch his tent there, and no shepherd will ever pasture his flock there. 
But if the slave declares that he loves his master, his wife, and his children and does not want to be set free, 
We put aside all secret and shameful deeds; we do not act with deceit, nor do we falsify the word of God. In the full light of truth we live in God's sight and try to commend ourselves to everyone's good conscience. 
then south along the River Jordan to the Dead Sea. : “These will be the four borders of your land.” 
And in one hour she has lost all this wealth!” : All the ships' captains and passengers, the sailors and all others who earn their living on the sea, stood a long way off, 
That night the meat is to be roasted, and eaten with bitter herbs and with bread made without yeast. 
“Do not try to stop him,” Jesus told them, “because no one who performs a miracle in my name will be able soon afterwards to say evil things about me.  
Not long after that, Ahithophel said to Absalom, “Let me choose 12,000 men, and tonight I will set out after David. 
I will build your towers with rubies, : your gates with stones that glow like fire, : and the wall around you with jewels. 
listen to them in heaven. Forgive the sins of your people, and bring them back to the land which you gave to their ancestors. 
So how can I find words to answer God? 
If any of you have a dispute with another Christian, how dare you go before heathen judges instead of letting God's people settle the matter? 
You have rejected us, God, and defeated us; : you have been angry with us — but now turn back to us. 
On Judgement Day children born of a forbidden union will testify to the sin of their parents and act as witnesses against them. 
Our brothers and sisters, the same things happened to you that happened to the churches of God in Judea, to the people there who belong to Christ Jesus. You suffered the same persecutions from your own people that they suffered from the Jews, 
Tappuah, Hepher, 
But don't try to bribe him or rely on offerings that you have obtained dishonestly. He will not accept them. : The Lord is fair and does not show partiality. 
“The LORD will defeat your enemies when they attack you. They will attack from one direction, but they will run from you in all directions. 
Hazar Gaddah, Heshmon, Bethpelet, 
Then the Lord said to me, “In exactly one year the greatness of the tribes of Kedar will be at an end. 
You are powerful enough to do anything, but you are merciful to everyone; you overlook our sins and give us time to repent. 
He tore the sky apart and came down : with a dark cloud under his feet. 
I will also kill her followers, and then all the churches will know that I am the one who knows everyone's thoughts and wishes. I will repay each of you according to what you have done. 
There is nothing that God loves more than people who are at home with Wisdom. 
Look, my father, look at the piece of your robe I am holding! I could have killed you, but instead I only cut this off. This should convince you that I have no thought of rebelling against you or of harming you. You are hunting me down to kill me, even though I have not done you any wrong. 
he said, “Look how great Babylon is! I built it as my capital city to display my power and might, my glory and majesty.” 
She was given the two wings of a large eagle in order to fly to her place in the desert, where she will be taken care of for three and a half years, safe from the dragon's attack. 
Boaz asked the man in charge, “Who is that young woman?” 
He led me all round the valley, and I could see that there were very many bones and that they were very dry. 
It will not be like the old covenant that I made with their ancestors when I took them by the hand and led them out of Egypt. Although I was like a husband to them, they did not keep that covenant. 
The LORD is not praised by the dead, : by any who go down to the land of silence. 
“My people, why should you be living in well-built houses while my Temple lies in ruins? 
You have spent enough time in the past doing what the heathen like to do. Your lives were spent in indecency, lust, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and the disgusting worship of idols. 
“Every day for all time to come, sacrifice on the altar two one-year-old lambs. 
The king said, “Your God is the greatest of all gods, the Lord over kings, and the one who reveals mysteries. I know this because you have been able to explain this mystery.” 
Their houses will be given to others, and so will their fields and their wives. I am going to punish the people of this land. 
But you, my friends, you deceive me like streams : that go dry when no rain comes. 
To fear the Lord is the root of Wisdom; : her branches are long life. 
Doom is sure to come for those who lose their hope. What will they do when the Lord comes to judge them? 
The people of Judah sinned against the LORD and did more to arouse his anger against them than all their ancestors had done. 
Everyone must obey the state authorities, because no authority exists without God's permission, and the existing authorities have been put there by God. 
“If an evil person stops sinning and keeps my laws, if he does what is right and good, he will not die; he will certainly live. 
Remember today what you have learned about the LORD through your experiences with him. It was you, not your children, who had these experiences. You saw the LORD's greatness, his power, his might, 
I still did not know that he was the one, but God, who sent me to baptize with water, had said to me, ‘You will see the Spirit come down and stay on a man; he is the one who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.’ 
but in the third year King Jehoshaphat of Judah went to see King Ahab of Israel. 
Barnabas and Saul finished their mission and returned from Jerusalem, taking John Mark with them.
Day after day I was with you teaching in the Temple, and you did not arrest me. But the Scriptures must come true.” 
Then the LORD said to Moses, “This is the land that I promised Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob I would give to their descendants. I have let you see it, but I will not let you go there.” 
I beg you, my brothers and sisters, to listen patiently to this message of encouragement; for this letter I have written to you is not very long. 
He sent out a proclamation to the people of Nineveh: “This is an order from the king and his officials: no one is to eat anything; all persons, cattle, and sheep are forbidden to eat or drink. 
If the one place of worship is too far away, then, whenever you wish, you may kill any of the cattle or sheep that the LORD has given you, and you may eat the meat at home, as I have told you. 
The LORD will come with fire. He will ride on the wings of a storm to punish those he is angry with. 
My sweetheart, my bride, is a secret garden, : a walled garden, a private spring; 
From the Levite clan of Kohath came Uriel, in charge of 120 members of his clan; 
If you are intelligent, you will be praised; if you are stupid, people will look down on you. 
All this happened in Bethany on the east side of the River Jordan, where John was baptizing. 
I have been instructed to bless, : And when God blesses, I cannot call it back. 
But if they do not cross the Jordan and go into battle with you, they are to receive their share of the property in the land of Canaan, as you do.” 
At that time you followed the world's evil way; you obeyed the ruler of the spiritual powers in space, the spirit who now controls the people who disobey God. 
The capitals were shaped like lilies, 1.8 metres tall, 
Be faithful to your own wife and give your love to her alone. 
But now you have been set free from sin and are the slaves of God. Your gain is a life fully dedicated to him, and the result is eternal life. 
“Then I passed by and saw you squirming in your own blood. You were covered with blood, but I wouldn't let you die. 
Burn the whole ram on the altar as a food offering. The odour of this offering pleases me. 
of not returning a greeting, : of staring at a prostitute, 
the altar for burnt offerings and all its equipment, the washbasin and its base, 
But Jerusalem rebelled against my commands and showed that she was more wicked than the other nations, more disobedient than the countries around her. Jerusalem rejected my commands and refused to keep my laws. 
In the same way you younger people must submit to your elders. And all of you must put on the apron of humility, to serve one another; for the scripture says, “God resists the proud, but shows favour to the humble.” 
He will answer from heaven and save me; : he will defeat my oppressors. : God will show me his constant love and faithfulness. 
Your hearts will pound with fear at everything you see. Every morning you will wish for evening; every evening you will wish for morning. 
When one person builds and somebody else tears down, has anything been accomplished but hard work? 
Our time on earth is like a passing shadow. There is no escape from the day of our death; it is fixed, and no one can postpone it.” 
They will thrive like well-watered grass, : like willows by streams of running water. 
and the curtain hanging in the Temple was torn in two. 
This, however, is not the way it is among you. If one of you wants to be great, he must be the servant of the rest;  
So I will bring disaster upon them — the very things they are afraid of — because no one answered when I called or listened when I spoke. They chose to disobey me and do evil.” 
Her leaders wandered through the streets like the blind, : so stained with blood that no one would touch them. 
God presides in the heavenly council; : in the assembly of the gods he gives his decision
A wife is not the master of her own body, but her husband is; in the same way a husband is not the master of his own body, but his wife is. 
When her labour pains were at their worst, the midwife said to her, “Don't be afraid, Rachel; it's another boy.” 
O LORD, listen in heaven and judge your servants. Punish the guilty one as he deserves, and acquit the one who is innocent. 
Her husband is well known, one of the leading citizens. 
He exclaimed, “May God strike me dead if Elisha is not beheaded before the day is over!” 
Then the Pharisees left and made plans to kill Jesus. 
Does this sound as if we were again boasting about ourselves? Could it be that, like some other people, we need letters of recommendation to you or from you? 
I cannot talk with you much longer, because the ruler of this world is coming. He has no power over me,  
Pray to the LORD! We have had enough of this thunder and hail! I promise to let you go; you don't have to stay here any longer.” 
“No,” answered Saul. “How could you fight him? You're just a boy, and he has been a soldier all his life!” 
Even now, if your people up in the mountains had not insulted me, I would not have declared war on them. They have brought all this trouble on themselves. 
For we have heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of your love for all God's people. 
“A ship sails across the waves of the ocean, but when it is gone, it leaves no trace. You cannot tell it was ever there. 
The LORD says, “If you treat the Sabbath as sacred and do not pursue your own interests on that day; if you value my holy day and honour it by not travelling, working, or talking idly on that day, 
Their bodies, backs, hands, wings, and wheels were covered with eyes. 
Jehoram had become king at the age of 32 and had ruled in Jerusalem for eight years. Nobody was sorry when he died. They buried him in David's City, but not in the royal tombs.
Israel, I want you to know that I am not doing all this for your sake. I want you to feel the shame and disgrace of what you are doing. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken.” 
I have much to say about you, much to condemn you for. The one who sent me, however, is truthful, and I tell the world only what I have heard from him.” 
Now that the time for faith is here, the Law is no longer in charge of us. 
King Hezekiah understood this to mean that there would be peace and security during his lifetime, so he replied, “The message you have given me from the LORD is good.” 
Didn't I weep with people in trouble : and feel sorry for those in need? 
The attitude you should have is the one that Christ Jesus had
Ahaz died and was buried in the royal tombs in David's City, and his son Hezekiah succeeded him as king.
When you have all you want to eat and have built good houses to live in 
Fling wide the gates, : open the ancient doors, : and the great king will come in. 
They had been under the control of Chedorlaomer for twelve years, but in the thirteenth year they rebelled against him. 
“You are my people, so you must not eat the meat of any animal that has been killed by wild animals; instead, give it to the dogs.
They surrendered their power and honour to foreigners, 
“And now, LORD God, fulfil for all time the promise you made about me and my descendants, and do what you said you would. 
In case of war they might join our enemies in order to fight against us, and might escape from the country. We must find some way to keep them from becoming even more numerous.” 
Ishmael was 137 years old when he died. 
The fighting men of Teman will be terrified, : and every soldier in Edom will be killed. 
The depths of the oceans and seas : Say that wisdom is not found there. 
Eliab, Jeroham, Elkanah. 
From there they went to Gudgodah and then on to Jotbathah, a well-watered place. 
Proclaim with me the LORD's greatness; : let us praise his name together! 
Before he had finished speaking, another servant came and said, “Your children were having a feast at the home of your eldest son, 
I will put you in charge of my country, and all my people will obey your orders. Your authority will be second only to mine. 
There was a woman who had suffered terribly from severe bleeding for twelve years, 
and Gershom and Eliezer, her two sons. (Moses had said, “I have been a foreigner in a strange land”; so he had named one son Gershom.  
Then the LORD said to him, “Go back to the land of your fathers and to your relatives. I will be with you.” 
O LORD, I will always sing of your constant love; : I will proclaim your faithfulness for ever. 
King Abijah died and was buried in the royal tombs in David's City. His son Asa succeeded him as king, and under Asa the land enjoyed peace for ten years. 
My sons, do not lose any time. You are the ones that the LORD has chosen to burn incense to him and to lead the people in worshipping him.” 
The woods were full of honey, but no one ate any of it because they were all afraid of Saul's curse. 
Moab is very proud! I have heard how proud, arrogant, and conceited the people are, how much they think of themselves. 
Get out of our way and stop blocking our path. We don't want to hear about your holy God of Israel.” 
All the men of Judah, with their wives and children, were standing there at the Temple. 
Without wood, a fire goes out; without gossip, quarrelling stops. 
then you should all know, and all the people of Israel should know, that this man stands here before you completely well through the power of the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth — whom you crucified and whom God raised from death. 
Gershom, of the clan of Phinehas : Daniel, of the clan of Ithamar : Hattush son of Shecaniah, of the clan of David : Zechariah, of the clan of Parosh, with 150 men of his clan (there were records of their ancestry) : Eliehoenai son of Zerahiah, of the clan of Pahath Moab, with 200 men : Shecaniah son of Jahaziel, of the clan of Zattu, with 300 men : Ebed son of Jonathan, of the clan of Adin, with fifty men : Jeshaiah son of Athaliah, of the clan of Elam, with seventy men : Zebadiah son of Michael, of the clan of Shephatiah, with eighty men : Obadiah son of Jehiel, of the clan of Joab, with 218 men : Shelomith son of Josiphiah, of the clan of Bani, with 160 men : Zechariah son of Bebai, of the clan of Bebai, with 28 men : Johanan son of Hakkatan, of the clan of Azgad, with 110 men : Eliphelet, Jeuel, and Shemaiah, of the clan of Adonikam, with sixty men (they returned at a later date) : Uthai and Zaccur, of the clan of Bigvai, with seventy men 
If they were hungry, I shared my food with them; if they needed clothes, I gave them some of my own. Whenever I saw that the dead body of one of my people had been thrown outside the city wall, I gave it a decent burial. 
Say nothing, and someone may think you are wise! 
He returned to Judah and said, “I couldn't find her. The men of the place said that there had never been a prostitute there.” 
In each church they appointed elders, and with prayers and fasting they commended them to the Lord, in whom they had put their trust. 
They replied, “This is what you should tell them: ‘My little finger is thicker than my father's waist.’ 
Everything else that King Ahaz did is recorded in The History of the Kings of Judah. 
The husband of a good wife is a fortunate man; he will live twice as long because of her. 
Say to them: : “Do you think you are more beautiful than anyone else? : You will go down to the world of the dead : and lie there among the ungodly. 
When you walk along a path in someone else's cornfield, you may eat all the corn you can pull off with your hands, but you must not cut any corn with a sickle.
Don't you know the place, loveliest of women? : Go and follow the flock; : find pasture for your goats : near the tents of the shepherds. 
All the nations will ask me to bless them as I have blessed your descendants — all because you obeyed my command.” 
you must offer them only in the one place that the LORD will choose in the territory of one of your tribes. Only there are you to offer your sacrifices that are to be burnt and do all the other things that I have commanded you. 
Now, will God not judge in favour of his own people who cry to him day and night for help? Will he be slow to help them?  
They had travelled a good distance from the house when Micah called his neighbours out for battle. They caught up with the men from Dan 
You will be allowed 230 grammes of bread a day, and it will have to last until the next day. 
I am saying this because I want to help you. I am not trying to put restrictions on you. Instead, I want you to do what is right and proper, and to give yourselves completely to the Lord's service without any reservation. 
Don't let your sobbing be heard. Do not go bareheaded or barefoot as a sign of mourning. Don't cover your face or eat the food that mourners eat.” 
that you gave us through your servants, the prophets. They told us that the land we were going to occupy was an impure land because the people who lived in it filled it from one end to the other with disgusting, filthy actions. 
And the LORD sent Gideon, Barak, Jephthah, and finally me. Each of us rescued you from your enemies, and you lived in safety. 
Anyone who makes such a thing or desires it or worships it is in love with something evil, and gets what he deserves when he places his hopes in it. 
then listen to their prayers. In your home in heaven hear them and be merciful to them and forgive all the sins of your people. 
On the day that the LORD gave the men of Israel victory over the Amorites, Joshua spoke to the LORD. In the presence of the Israelites he said, : “Sun, stand still over Gibeon; : Moon, stop over Aijalon Valley.” 
They called to you and escaped from danger; : they trusted you and were not disappointed. 
Today I give you authority over nations and kingdoms to uproot and to pull down, to destroy and to overthrow, to build and to plant.” 
A good person will never fail; : he will always be remembered. 
They shall put on the fire the pieces of the animal, including the head and the fat. 
Thomas answered him, “My Lord and my God!” 
If it is a ruler who sins and becomes guilty of breaking one of the LORD's commands without intending to, 
The LORD loves what is righteous and just; : his constant love fills the earth. 
“You were a nobody, but I made you the leader of my people Israel. And now you have sinned like Jeroboam and have led my people into sin. Their sins have aroused my anger, 
You should each give, then, as you have decided, not with regret or out of a sense of duty; for God loves the one who gives gladly. 
The Levites roasted the Passover sacrifices over the fire, according to the regulations, and boiled the sacred offerings in pots, cauldrons, and pans, and quickly distributed the meat to the people. 
They may sound fine, but don't believe him, because his heart is filled to the brim with hate. 
“I will punish the people of Jerusalem and of all Judah. I will destroy the last trace of the worship of Baal there, and no one will even remember the pagan priests who serve him. 
and change her clothes. She is to stay in your home and mourn for her parents for a month; after that, you may marry her. 
For there is one God, and there is one who brings God and human beings together, the man Christ Jesus, 
They say that anyone would be a fool to fold his hands and let himself starve to death. 
That night God did that very thing. The next morning the wool was dry, but the ground was wet with dew.
Then the prophet Isaiah went to King Hezekiah and asked, “Where did these men come from and what did they say to you?” : Hezekiah answered, “They came from a very distant country, from Babylonia.” 
In the meantime Heber the Kenite had set up his tent close to Kedesh near the oak tree at Zanannim. He had moved away from the other Kenites, the descendants of Hobab, the brother-in-law of Moses. 
Here we see how kind and how severe God is. He is severe towards those who have fallen, but kind to you — if you continue in his kindness. But if you do not, you too will be broken off. 
Instead, he turned and went back to his palace without paying any attention even to this. 
O LORD, my defender, I call to you. : Listen to my cry! : If you do not answer me, : I will be among those who go down to the world of the dead. 
The man's wife took a covering, spread it over the opening of the well and scattered grain over it, so that no one would notice anything. 
You should not provide a sinner with more opportunity to sin. You might get hurt yourself; it's as easy as getting burnt while adding logs to a fire. 
From his sanctuary God has said, : “In triumph I will divide Shechem : and distribute the Valley of Sukkoth to my people. 
Moses and Aaron performed all these miracles before the king, but the LORD made him stubborn, and he would not let the Israelites leave his country.
Every time the king went to the Temple, the guards carried the shields and then returned them to the guardroom. 
How happy you are to believe that the Lord's message to you will come true!” 
Show him no mercy. Rid Israel of this murderer, so that all will go well with you. 
“If anyone agrees to keep someone else's money or other valuables for him and they are stolen from his house, the thief, if found, shall repay double. 
As a sign of this everlasting covenant which I am making with you and with all living beings, 
He told you what you must do to keep the covenant he made with you — you must obey the Ten Commandments, which he wrote on two stone tablets. 
And I was kept in the palace courtyard until the day Jerusalem was captured.
Our life is short, we know nothing at all; : we pass like shadows across the earth. 
Because he abolished the pagan places of worship and the incense altars from all the cities of Judah, the kingdom was at peace under his rule. 
“No one born out of wedlock or any descendant of such a person, even in the tenth generation, may be included among the LORD's people. 
Freedom is what we have — Christ has set us free! Stand, then, as free people, and do not allow yourselves to become slaves again. 
The LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, has said that houses, fields, and vineyards will again be bought in this land.” 
Then I saw in the sky another mysterious sight, great and amazing. There were seven angels with seven plagues, which are the last ones, because they are the final expression of God's anger. 
That sinful man will be caught when he least expects it, and punished publicly. 
Moses said to all the people of Israel, “This is what the LORD has commanded
They assembled in Jerusalem in the third month of the fifteenth year that Asa was king. 
Remind me each morning of your constant love, : for I put my trust in you. : My prayers go up to you; : show me the way I should go. 
We feast on the abundant food you provide; : you let us drink from the river of your goodness. 
Joshua's campaign took him from Kadesh Barnea in the south to Gaza near the coast, including all the area of Goshen, and as far north as Gibeon. 
We sailed slowly for several days and with great difficulty finally arrived off the town of Cnidus. The wind would not let us go any further in that direction, so we sailed down the sheltered side of the island of Crete, passing by Cape Salmone. 
The next day an evil spirit from God suddenly took control of Saul, and he raved in his house like a madman. David was playing the harp, as he did every day, and Saul was holding a spear. 
The man got up and went home. 
Jotham was 25 years old when he became king, and he ruled in Jerusalem for sixteen years. 
“There was once a rich man who dressed in the most expensive clothes and lived in great luxury every day.  
Those who love their own life will lose it; those who hate their own life in this world will keep it for life eternal.  
but you can help me by returning to the city and telling Absalom that you will now serve him as faithfully as you served his father. And do all you can to oppose any advice that Ahithophel gives. 
He reconquered all the territory that had belonged to Israel, from Hamath Pass in the north to the Dead Sea in the south. This was what the LORD, the God of Israel, had promised through his servant the prophet Jonah son of Amittai, from Gath Hepher. 
I will pursue them with war, starvation, and disease, and all the nations of the world will be horrified at what they see. Everywhere I scatter them, people will be shocked and terrified at what has happened to them. People will mock them and use their name as a curse. 
and begged him earnestly, “My little daughter is very ill. Please come and place your hands on her, so that she will get well and live!” 
Achior, you are nothing but an Ammonite mercenary, and you talk like a traitor. You will not see me again until I come and punish this race of runaway slaves. 
If you do, he will send rain on your land when it is needed, in the autumn and in the spring, so that there will be corn, wine, and olive oil for you, 
If anyone who made the vow is too poor to pay the standard price, he or she shall bring the person to the priest, and the priest will set a lower price, according to the ability of that person to pay. 
When I punish Egypt in this way, they will know that I am the LORD.” 
I, too, am a man under the authority of superior officers, and I have soldiers under me. I order this one, ‘Go!’ and he goes; and I order that one, ‘Come!’ and he comes; and I order my slave, ‘Do this!’ and he does it.” 
and so that place has been called Perez Uzzah ever since. David was furious because the LORD had punished Uzzah in anger. 
(In saying this, Jesus was indicating the way in which Peter would die and bring glory to God.) Then Jesus said to him, “Follow me!” 
And look out for one another's interests, not just for your own. 
This is why I order you to set aside three cities. 
When Pilate saw that it was no use to go on, but that a riot might break out, he took some water, washed his hands in front of the crowd, and said, “I am not responsible for the death of this man! This is your doing!” 
Barnabas wanted to take John Mark with them, 
Realizing that I was only human, I prayed and was given understanding. The spirit of Wisdom came to me. 
Darkness will fall on Tahpanhes when I break the power of Egypt and put an end to the strength they were so proud of. A cloud will cover Egypt, and the people of all her cities will be taken prisoner. 
And he commanded the strongest men in his army to tie the three men up and throw them into the blazing furnace. 
King David said, “Ask Bathsheba to come back in” — and she came and stood before him. 
My brothers and sisters, not many of you should become teachers. As you know, we teachers will be judged with greater strictness than others. 
My child, listen to me and take my advice. 
But as soon as the demon was driven out, the man started talking, and everyone was amazed. “We have never seen anything like this in Israel!” they exclaimed. 
He is our God; : we are the people he cares for, : the flock for which he provides. : Listen today to what he says
They were all terrified when they saw him. : Jesus spoke to them at once, “Courage!” he said. “It is I. Don't be afraid!”  
When Achior heard all that the God of Israel had done, he became a firm believer. He was circumcised and made a member of the Israelite community, as his descendants are to the present day. 
Some people are thought to be wise because they don't talk much; others are disliked because they talk too much. 
Jediael had one son, Bilhan, and Bilhan had seven sons: Jeush, Benjamin, Ehud, Chenaanah, Zethan, Tarshish, and Ahishahar. 
Then the LORD said to me, “Jeremiah, what do you see?” : I answered, “Figs. The good ones are very good, and the bad ones are very bad, too bad to eat.” 
Getting involved in an argument that is none of your business is like going down the street and grabbing a dog by the ears. 
I have told you this so that you will have peace by being united to me. The world will make you suffer. But be brave! I have defeated the world!”
Stretch out your hand to heal, and grant that wonders and miracles may be performed through the name of your holy Servant Jesus.” 
weavers and skilled workers will be broken and depressed. 
Then Samuel sent for all the Israelites to meet at Mizpah, saying, “I will pray to the LORD for you there.” 
So he asked the twelve disciples, “And you — would you also like to leave?” 
the clans of Iezer, Helek, 
The LORD spoke to Jeremiah in the thirteenth year that Josiah son of Amon was king of Judah, 
And now I give you a new commandment: love one another. As I have loved you, so you must love one another.  
Jesus said to him, “Salvation has come to this house today, for this man, also, is a descendant of Abraham.  
O God, you have forsaken your people, the descendants of Jacob! The land is full of magic practices from the east and from Philistia. The people follow foreign customs. 
The brook of Nimrim is dry, the grass beside it has withered, and nothing green is left. 
The inside walls of the Temple, up as high as above the doors, were completely covered with carvings  
Don't go with people like that, my child. Stay away from them. 
That day is to be a very holy day, one on which they fast and do no work at all. These regulations are to be observed for all time to come. 
The young men came in, wrapped up his body, carried him out, and buried him. 
So they destroyed the sacred pillar and the temple, and turned the temple into a latrine — which it still is today. 
Your hair is beautiful upon your cheeks : and falls along your neck like jewels. 
We know that none of God's children keep on sinning, for the Son of God keeps them safe, and the Evil One cannot harm them. 
These are the regulations concerning the burnt offerings, grain offerings, wine offerings, and fellowship offerings that you are to make to the LORD at your appointed festivals. These are in addition to the offerings you give in fulfilment of a vow or as freewill offerings. 
The wild animals go to their dens. 
Sihon came out with all his men to fight us near the town of Jahaz, 
The Lord chose Aaron out of the whole human race to offer sacrifices, to burn fragrant incense to remind the Lord of his people, and to take away their sins. 
Those who have put their trust in Ethiopia and have boasted about Egypt will be disillusioned, their hopes shattered. 
I am going to give this city over to King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia and his army; they will capture it 
“Then the LORD said to me, ‘Go down the mountain at once, because your people, whom you led out of Egypt, have become corrupt and have done evil. They have already turned away from what I commanded them to do, and they have made an idol for themselves.’ 
The official ordered the carriage to stop, and both Philip and the official went down into the water, and Philip baptized him. 
You women who live an easy life, free from worries, listen to what I am saying. 
It is written in your Law that when two witnesses agree, what they say is true.  
and followed the example of the kings of Israel. He even sacrificed his own son as a burnt offering to idols, imitating the disgusting practice of the people whom the LORD had driven out of the land as the Israelites advanced. 
Joshua son of Nun was a great soldier and the next of the prophets after Moses. He lived up to the meaning of his name as the great deliverer of the Lord's chosen people. He defeated the enemies that attacked them, so that Israel could claim its land. 
LORD, have mercy on us. We have put our hope in you. Protect us day by day and save us in times of trouble. 
Then they looked up and saw that the stone had already been rolled back. 
Then Joseph settled his father and his brothers in Egypt, giving them property in the best of the land near the city of Rameses, as the king had commanded. 
Assemble all your tribal leaders and officials before me, so that I can tell them these things; I will call heaven and earth to be my witnesses against them. 
Moses said about the tribe of Reuben: : “May Reuben never die out, : Although their people are few.” 
He also had a concubine in Shechem; she bore him a son, and he named him Abimelech. 
You are to take with you the gold and silver offerings which I and my counsellors desire to give to the God of Israel, whose Temple is in Jerusalem. 
Then, on the tenth day of the seventh month, the Day of Atonement, send someone to blow a trumpet throughout the whole land. 
One day Samson went to the Philistine city of Gaza, where he met a prostitute and went to bed with her. 
Save me from my cruel enemies; : rescue me from the power of foreigners, : who never tell the truth : and lie even under oath. 
Remember how great is God's power; : he is the greatest teacher of all. 
The proud are coming against me, O God; : a cruel gang is trying to kill me — : people who pay no attention to you. 
Then the followers of John the Baptist came to Jesus, asking, “Why is it that we and the Pharisees fast often, but your disciples don't fast at all?” 
Intelligent people want to learn, but stupid people are satisfied with ignorance. 
Immediately the man got well; he picked up his mat and started walking. : The day this happened was a Sabbath, 
Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed
Then King David went into the Tent of the LORD's presence, sat down and prayed, “I am not worthy of what you have already done for me, Sovereign LORD, nor is my family. 
When Rehoboam arrived in Jerusalem, he called together 180,000 of the best soldiers from the tribes of Judah and Benjamin. He intended to go to war and restore his control over the northern tribes of Israel. 
But now, in union with Christ Jesus, you who used to be far away have been brought near by the blood of Christ. 
Then Moses and Aaron did as the LORD commanded. In the presence of the king and his officers, Aaron raised his stick and struck the surface of the river, and all the water in it was turned into blood. 
Trust in the LORD with all your heart. Never rely on what you think you know. 
I will do my best, then, to provide a way for you to remember these matters at all times after my death. 
“The LORD is going to bring on you, on your people, and on the whole royal family, days of trouble worse than any that have come since the kingdom of Israel separated from Judah — he is going to bring the king of Assyria. 
The man answered, “She is the young woman from Moab who came back with Naomi. 
But as for me, my brothers and sisters, if I continue to preach that circumcision is necessary, why am I still being persecuted? If that were true, then my preaching about the cross of Christ would cause no trouble. 
oil for the lamps; spices for the anointing oil and for the sweet-smelling incense; 
If you obey the Lord by honouring your father and making your mother happy, you will live a long life. 
The clan of Gershon was composed of the families of Libni and Shimei. 
The priests who serve in the Jewish place of worship have no right to eat any of the sacrifice on our altar. 
We Christians, then, must help these people, so that we may share in their work for the truth. 
Be firm in your faith and resist him, because you know that your fellow-believers in all the world are going through the same kind of sufferings. 
So the people ate and were satisfied; : God gave them what they wanted. 
The Israelites were called up and equipped; they marched out and camped in two groups facing the Syrians. The Israelites looked like two small flocks of goats compared with the Syrians, who spread out over the countryside. 
Some time later King Xerxes promoted a man named Haman to the position of prime minister. Haman was the son of Hammedatha, a descendant of Agag.  
“What is more,” Haman went on, “Queen Esther gave a banquet for no one but the king and me, and we are invited back tomorrow. 
Love the LORD, all his faithful people. : The LORD protects the faithful, : but punishes the proud as they deserve. 
Wicked people watch good people : and try to kill them; 
His mouth is sweet to kiss; : everything about him enchants me. : This is what my lover is like, : women of Jerusalem.
I asked them: what are these high places where you go? So they have been called ‘High Places’ ever since. 
to command the priests carrying the Covenant Box to come up out of the Jordan. 
For the devout, his ways are straight; : for the wicked, they are laid with traps. 
Tell him to keep alert, to stay calm, and not to be frightened or disturbed. The anger of King Rezin and his Syrians and of King Pekah is no more dangerous than the smoke from two smouldering sticks. 
The next morning the Roman authorities sent police officers with the order, “Let those men go.” 
You will decide to invade a helpless country where the people live in peace and security in unwalled towns that have no defences. 
For the Son of Man will come like the lightning which flashes across the whole sky from the east to the west. 
“But I will gather you together, all you people of Israel that are left. I will bring you together like sheep returning to the fold. Like a pasture full of sheep, your land will once again be filled with many people.” 
If you can't manage even such a small thing, why worry about the other things?  
Then I saw an angel standing on the sun. He shouted in a loud voice to all the birds flying in mid air: “Come and gather together for God's great feast! 
I will set fire to the temples of Egypt's gods, and the king of Babylonia will either burn their gods or carry them off. As shepherds pick their clothes clean of lice, so the king of Babylonia will pick the land of Egypt clean and then leave victorious. 
Then Balak said to Balaam, “What have you done to me? I brought you here to curse my enemies, but all you have done is bless them.” 
Raguel told his wife to bake enough bread for a big feast. Then he went out to the herd and brought back two oxen and four rams, which he ordered his servants to slaughter in preparation for the wedding feast. 
or steal from them. Instead, they must show that they are always good and faithful, so as to bring credit to the teaching about God our Saviour in all they do. 
There were palm trees and winged creatures carved on the doors of the Holy Place, just as there were on the walls. And there was a wooden covering over the outside of the doorway of the entrance room. 
At each blast of the trumpet they snort; : they can smell a battle before they get near, : and they hear the officers shouting commands. 
Greet one another with a holy kiss. : All God's people send you their greetings. 
And you Israelites say, ‘What the Lord does isn't right.’ You think my way isn't right, do you? It is your way that isn't right. 
We will take to the Temple each year an offering of the first corn we harvest and of the first fruit that ripens on our trees. 
Saul was furious with Jonathan and said to him, “How rebellious and faithless your mother was! Now I know you are taking sides with David and are disgracing yourself and that mother of yours! 
LORD, you are Israel's hope; : all who abandon you will be put to shame. : They will disappear like names written in the dust, : because they have abandoned you, the LORD, : the spring of fresh water. 
“The priestly tribe of Levi is not to receive any share of land in Israel; instead, they are to live on the offerings and other sacrifices given to the LORD. 
(A mighty race of giants called the Emim used to live in Ar. They were as tall as the Anakim, another race of giants. 
The LORD said to Joshua, “What I do today will make all the people of Israel begin to honour you as a great man, and they will realize that I am with you as I was with Moses. 
(He said this so that what he had said might come true: “Father, I have not lost even one of those you gave me.”) 
And he said to me, “Do not keep the prophetic words of this book a secret, because the time is near when all this will happen. 
The man took me through the east gateway into the inner courtyard. He measured the gateway, and it was the same size as the others. 
Jesus stood up and commanded the wind, “Be quiet!” and he said to the waves, “Be still!” The wind died down, and there was a great calm. 
“Tell those rebellious people of Israel that I, the Sovereign LORD, will no longer tolerate the disgusting things that they have been doing. 
The LORD gave them peace throughout the land, just as he had promised their ancestors. Not one of all their enemies had been able to stand against them, because the LORD gave the Israelites the victory over all their enemies. 
Rescue them from the power of the wicked. 
Then I will take my hand away, and you will see my back but not my face.”
The king speaks with divine authority; his decisions are always right. 
His second in command was Jehozabad with 180,000 men, well equipped for battle. 
How good it is to get what you want! Stupid people refuse to turn away from evil. 
Paul said, “The baptism of John was for those who turned from their sins; and he told the people of Israel to believe in the one who was coming after him — that is, in Jesus.” 
Jonathan said to the young man, “Let's cross over to the camp of those heathen Philistines. Maybe the LORD will help us; if he does, nothing can keep him from giving us the victory, no matter how few of us there are.” 
and saying, “The Lord is risen indeed! He has appeared to Simon!” 
They thought that their sins had been secret and unnoticed, shielded from view by a dark curtain of forgetfulness, but now they were horribly afraid, confused, and terrified by ghostly forms. 
We know that the Law is spiritual; but I am unspiritual, sold as a slave to sin. 
Jesus and his disciples came to the town of Capernaum, and on the next Sabbath Jesus went to the synagogue and began to teach. 
“When you tell them all this, they will ask you why I have decided to punish them so harshly. They will ask what crime they are guilty of and what sin they have committed against the LORD their God. 
The brave are calling for help. The ambassadors who tried to bring about peace are crying bitterly. 
She has had an animal killed for a feast, mixed spices in the wine, and laid the table. 
Heshbon, and Jazer, with their pasture lands. 
Take action against the foreign nations, and let them witness your power! 
“No one knows, however, when that day and hour will come — neither the angels in heaven nor the Son;    the Father alone knows.  
And they stayed a long time there with the believers.
They poured out the blood of God's people and of the prophets, and so you have given them blood to drink. They are getting what they deserve!” 
But he said, “Don't make us stay. The LORD has made my journey a success; let me go back to my master.” 
But now the LORD my God has given me peace on all my borders. I have no enemies, and there is no danger of attack. 
Then Joab sent a report to David telling him about the battle, 
and then celebrate the Harvest Festival, to honour the LORD your God, by bringing him a freewill offering in proportion to the blessing he has given you. 
If a man who has a discharge touches someone without first having washed his hands, that person must wash his clothes and have a bath, and he remains unclean until evening. 
I jumped up and left the table without even touching my food. I removed the body from the street and carried it to a little shed, where I left it until sunset, when I could bury it. 
Remember that my father fought for you. He risked his life to save you from the Midianites. 
If someone sells a house in a walled city, he has the right to buy it back during the first full year from the date of sale. 
May my enemies die before their time; : may they go down alive into the world of the dead! : Evil is in their homes and in their hearts. 
Does an eagle wait for your command : to build its nest high in the mountains? 
And now you intend to make the men and women of Jerusalem and Judah your slaves. Don't you know that you also have committed sins against the LORD your God? 
Elkanah, Jeroham, Eliel, Toah, 
When a ram is offered, two kilogrammes of flour mixed with 1.5 litres of olive oil are to be presented as a grain offering, 
Clans of Solomon's servants who returned from exile: : Sotai, Sophereth, Perida, : Jaalah, Darkon, Giddel, : Shephatiah, Hattil, Pochereth Hazzebaim, and Amon. 
I will put my spirit in you and I will see to it that you follow my laws and keep all the commands I have given you. 
I will be with you; I will be your God, and you will be my people. 
I also learnt that the temple musicians and other Levites had left Jerusalem and gone back to their farms, because the people had not been giving them enough to live on. 
“Now suppose this second man has a son. He sees all the sins his father practised, but does not follow his example. 
Just be determined, be confident; and make sure that you obey the whole Law that my servant Moses gave you. Do not neglect any part of it and you will succeed wherever you go. 
But what if some of them were not faithful? Does this mean that God will not be faithful? 
Then King Rehoboam sent Adoniram, who was in charge of the forced labour, to go to the Israelites, but they stoned him to death. At this, Rehoboam hurriedly got into his chariot and escaped to Jerusalem. 
When the people of Israel heard that Jeroboam had returned from Egypt, they invited him to a meeting of the people and made him king of Israel. Only the tribe of Judah remained loyal to David's descendants. 
When your merchandise went overseas, : You filled the needs of every nation. : Kings were made rich : By the wealth of your goods. 
After this, Joshua and his army went back to the camp at Gilgal. 
“I haven't got a husband,” she answered. : Jesus replied, “You are right when you say you haven't got a husband.  
For with his strong arguments he defeated the Jews in public debates by proving from the Scriptures that Jesus is the Messiah.
Jesus answered, “What God wants you to do is to believe in the one he sent.” 
You have been raised to life with Christ, so set your hearts on the things that are in heaven, where Christ sits on his throne at the right-hand side of God. 
The soldiers also mocked him: they came up to him and offered him cheap wine, 
So Judas went to the garden, taking with him a group of Roman soldiers, and some temple guards sent by the chief priests and the Pharisees; they were armed and carried lanterns and torches. 
They came to Jesus and begged him earnestly, “This man really deserves your help. 
The pastures are filled with flocks; : the hillsides are full of joy. 
God commanded, and flies and gnats : swarmed throughout the whole country. 
Festus answered, “Paul is being kept a prisoner in Caesarea, and I myself will be going back there soon. 
Joshua gathered all the tribes of Israel together at Shechem. He called the elders, the leaders, the judges, and the officers of Israel, and they came into the presence of God. 
The soldiers took Jesus inside to the courtyard of the governor's palace and called together the rest of the company. 
You let the wind blow me away; : you toss me about in a raging storm. 
Were they ashamed because they did these disgusting things? No, they were not at all ashamed; they don't even know how to blush. And so they will fall as others have fallen; when I punish them, that will be the end of them. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
We ourselves, then, will give our full time to prayer and the work of preaching.” 
After that, there will be seven years of famine, and all the good years will be forgotten, because the famine will ruin the country. 
Everything made by the Lord is good; : he meets every need at the proper time. 
Come to the Lord, and leave your sin behind. Pray sincerely that he will help you to live a better life. 
every high tower, and the walls of every fortress. 
Then the LORD will ask his people, : ‘Where are those mighty gods you trusted? 
But in their stomachs the food turns bitter, : as bitter as any poison could be. 
and you will again obey him and keep all his commands that I am giving you today. 
The Spirit of the LORD came upon a Levite who was present in the crowd. His name was Jahaziel son of Zechariah; he was a member of the clan of Asaph and was descended from Asaph through Mattaniah, Jeiel, and Benaiah. 
The chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowd to ask Pilate to set Barabbas free and have Jesus put to death. 
One of the High Priest's slaves, a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off, spoke up. “Didn't I see you with him in the garden?” he asked. 
Their actions made the land unclean, and so the LORD is punishing the land and making it reject the people who lived there. 
Don't be too sure of yourself, even when the way looks easy. 
So I have already begun your ruin and destruction because of your sins. 
If you have daughters, keep them virtuous, and don't be too indulgent with them. 
There will be people in Jerusalem and on Mount Zion who will survive, because the LORD Almighty is determined to make this happen. 
But Adonijah has already become king, and you don't know anything about it. 
Praise the LORD! : Praise the LORD from heaven, : you that live in the heights above. 
I trust in God and am not afraid; : I praise him for what he has promised. : What can a mere human being do to me? 
Jacob moved closer to his father, who felt him and said, “Your voice sounds like Jacob's voice, but your arms feel like Esau's arms.” 
On the seventh day of the first month of the eleventh year of our exile, the LORD spoke to me. 
God will give someone wealth, honour, and property, yes, everything he wants, but then will not let him enjoy it. Some stranger will enjoy it instead. It is useless, and it's all wrong. 
When the plants grew and the ears of corn began to form, then the weeds showed up.  
Such idols are like scarecrows in a field of melons; : they cannot speak; : they have to be carried : because they cannot walk. : Do not be afraid of them: : they can cause you no harm, : and they can do you no good.” 
She led them through the deep waters of the Red Sea, 
Jesus' mother and brothers came to him, but were unable to join him because of the crowd. 
Then the seven angels with the seven trumpets prepared to blow them. 
I rely on your constant love; : I will be glad, because you will rescue me. 
my lips will never say anything evil, : my tongue will never tell a lie. 
He has seen you do the things he hates. He has seen you go after pagan gods on the hills and in the fields, like a man lusting after his neighbour's wife or like a stallion after a mare. People of Jerusalem, you are doomed! When will you ever be pure?
But even though my physical condition was a great trial to you, you did not despise or reject me. Instead, you received me as you would an angel from heaven; you received me as you would Christ Jesus. 
And it is best to learn this patience in our youth. 
but in order to keep the truth of the gospel safe for you, we did not give in to them for a minute. 
Do you, my friend, pass judgement on others? You have no excuse at all, whoever you are. For when you judge others and then do the same things which they do, you condemn yourself. 
The wagon came to a field belonging to a man named Joshua, who lived in Beth Shemesh, and it stopped there near a large rock. The people chopped up the wooden wagon and killed the cows and offered them as a burnt sacrifice to the LORD. 
Food was served to them from Joseph's table, and Benjamin was served five times as much as the rest of them. So they ate and drank with Joseph until they were drunk.
They will destroy your city walls and tear down your towers. Then I will sweep away all the dust and leave only a bare rock. 
Job, have you confessed your sins to God : and promised not to sin again? 
It is better to go to a home where there is mourning than to one where there is a party, because the living should always remind themselves that death is waiting for us all. 
With his left-hand Ehud took the sword from his right side and plunged it into the king's belly. 
and presented the breasts and the right hind legs as the special gift to the LORD for the priests, as Moses had commanded. 
This happened because of his sins against the LORD. Like his predecessor Jeroboam he displeased the LORD by his own sins and by leading Israel into sin. 
I've covered my bed with sheets of coloured linen from Egypt. 
and placed it in his own tomb, which he had just recently dug out of solid rock. Then he rolled a large stone across the entrance to the tomb and went away. 
You are the children of your father, the Devil, and you want to follow your father's desires. From the very beginning he was a murderer and has never been on the side of truth, because there is no truth in him. When he tells a lie, he is only doing what is natural to him, because he is a liar and the father of all lies.  
Then he returned to the three disciples and found them asleep; and he said to Peter, “How is it that you three were not able to keep watch with me even for one hour?  
So then, we should not be sleeping like the others; we should be awake and sober. 
I am the LORD your God; : I strengthen you and say, : ‘Do not be afraid; I will help you.’ ” 
Listen while I sing you this song, : a song of my friend and his vineyard: : My friend had a vineyard : on a very fertile hill. 
Joshua sent some men from Jericho to Ai, a city east of Bethel, near Bethaven, with orders to go and explore the land. When they had done so, 
She took off her sackcloth and her widow's clothes, had a bath, and put on rich perfumes. She brushed her hair, tied a ribbon round it, and dressed herself in the fine clothes she used to wear on joyful occasions when her husband Manasseh was still alive. 
He has let you and all the other Levites have this honour — and now you are trying to get the priesthood too! 
Be ready to listen when religious people speak, and don't miss anything that shows insight. 
Then a man who is ritually clean is to collect the ashes of the cow and put them in a ritually clean place outside the camp, where they are to be kept for the Israelite community to use in preparing the water for removing ritual uncleanness. This ritual is performed to remove sin. 
A voice cries out, : “Prepare in the wilderness a road for the LORD! : Clear the way in the desert for our God! 
“Are you going to build it again in three days?” they asked him. “It has taken 46 years to build this Temple!” 
They were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were killed by the sword. They went round clothed in skins of sheep or goats — poor, persecuted, and ill-treated. 
Manasseh died and was buried in the palace garden, the garden of Uzza, and his son Amon succeeded him as king. 
The man said, “I have escaped from the battle and have run all the way here today.” : Eli asked him, “What happened, my son?” 
It is your own face that you see reflected in the water and it is your own self that you see in your heart. 
The Egyptians will then know that I am the LORD, when I raise my hand against them and bring the Israelites out of their country.” 
These letters explained that the king would allow the Jews in every city to organize themselves for self-defence. If armed men of any nationality in any province attacked the Jewish men, their children or their women, the Jews could fight back and destroy the attackers; they could slaughter them to the last man and take their possessions. 
Save us by your might; answer our prayer, : so that the people you love may be rescued. 
The Jebusites told David he would never get inside the city, but David captured their fortress of Zion, and it became known as “David's City”. 
Each creature faced all four directions, and so the group could go wherever they wished, without having to turn. 
and Abimelech asked him, “Why did you do that?” 
The Israelites moved their camp to another place only when the cloud lifted from the Tent. 
After Judas had left, Jesus said, “Now the Son of Man's glory is revealed; now God's glory is revealed through him.  
The guards answered, “Nobody has ever talked like this man!” 
Don't add to the troubles of someone who is already desperate. If he is in need, don't put off giving to him. 
and reported, “Sir, we have counted the soldiers under our command and not one of them is missing. 
When they measured it, those who gathered much did not have too much, and those who gathered less did not have too little. Each had gathered just what he needed. 
and they say evil things about me, : attacking me for no reason. 
There was a little town without many people in it. A powerful king attacked it. He surrounded it and prepared to break through the walls. 
I pray that they may all be one. Father! May they be in us, just as you are in me and I am in you. May they be one, so that the world will believe that you sent me.  
“I am the Lord's servant,” said Mary; “may it happen to me as you have said.” And the angel left her. 
they thought that he was with the group, so they travelled a whole day and then started looking for him among their relatives and friends. 
Remind your people to submit to rulers and authorities, to obey them, and to be ready to do good in every way. 
The people of Israel will become like the sand of the sea, more than can be counted or measured. Now God says to them, “You are not my people,” but the day is coming when he will say to them, “You are the children of the living God!” 
He said to them, “Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, is it true that you refuse to worship my god and to bow down to the gold statue I have set up? 
There was a Jewish leader named Nicodemus, who belonged to the party of the Pharisees. 
We write this in order that our joy may be complete. 
Never have I disgraced myself or my father's name, : as long as we have lived in this land of exile. : My father has no other child to be his heir, : and there is no relative whom I can marry. : I have already lost seven husbands, : so why should I live any longer? : But if it is not your will to take my life, : at least show mercy to me. : Don't let me hear those insults again!” 
For the scripture says, “God put all things under his feet.” It is clear, of course, that the words “all things” do not include God himself, who puts all things under Christ. 
I send greetings to Priscilla and Aquila, my fellow-workers in the service of Christ Jesus; 
“And so Babylon will be haunted by demons and evil spirits, and by unclean birds. Never again will people live there, not for all time to come. 
Give me wisdom and knowledge, : because I trust in your commands. 
My child, as you go through life, keep your appetite under control, and don't eat anything that you know is bad for you. 
No merchant will live long enough to get back what he has lost, because God's anger is on everyone. Those who are evil cannot survive.  
Even if those three men, Noah, Danel, and Job, were living there, their goodness would save only their own lives.” The Sovereign LORD has spoken. 
How terrible it will be in those days for women who are pregnant and for mothers with little babies!  
“The people of Egypt will fall with those who are killed in battle. A sword is ready to kill them all.  
Israel will join with Judah, and together they will come from exile in the country in the north and will return to the land that I gave your ancestors as a permanent possession.” 
The Amorites forced the people of the tribe of Dan into the hill country and did not let them come down to the plain. 
I will tell of the LORD's unfailing love; : I praise him for all he has done for us. : He has richly blessed the people of Israel : because of his mercy and constant love. 
He hung the curtain at the entrance of the Tent, 
I will make the Tent and the altar holy, and I will set Aaron and his sons apart to serve me as priests. 
“Be determined and confident, and don't be afraid of the Assyrian emperor or of the army he is leading. We have more power on our side than he has on his. 
A foolish person trying to keep a secret suffers like a woman in labour. 
Tobit answered, “Give him half of what he helped you bring back. He well deserves that.” 
So Jehoram and his officers set out with chariots and invaded Edom. There the Edomite army surrounded them, but during the night they managed to break out and escape. 
“Did he fool you, too?” the Pharisees asked them. 
and you shall not forget the covenant I made with you. 
After the flood Noah lived for 350 years 
That decision was their own; but, as a matter of fact, they have an obligation to help them. Since the Jews shared their spiritual blessings with the Gentiles, the Gentiles ought to use their material blessings to help the Jews. 
But because of our sins he was wounded, : beaten because of the evil we did. : We are healed by the punishment he suffered, : made whole by the blows he received. 
So he said to Solomon, “So these, my brother, are the towns you have given me!” For this reason the area is still called Cabul.  
Build a well-constructed altar to the LORD your God on top of this mound. Then take the second bull and burn it whole as an offering, using for firewood the symbol of Asherah you have cut down.” 
All proud people will bow down to him; : all mortals will bow down before him. 
These are the descendants of Reuben, the eldest of Jacob's sons. (Because he had intercourse with one of his father's concubines, he lost the rights belonging to the firstborn son, and those rights were given to Joseph. 
You are to guard King Joash with drawn swords and stay with him wherever he goes. Anyone who comes near you is to be killed.” 
“Your Majesty, in your vision you saw standing before you a giant statue, bright and shining, and terrifying to look at. 
: Sallu, the son of Meshullam and grandson of Joed. His other ancestors included Pedaiah, Kolaiah, Maaseiah, Ithiel, and Jeshaiah. 
This time you will not have to leave in a hurry; : you will not be trying to escape. : The LORD your God will lead you : and protect you on every side. 
To prove that you are honest, one of you will stay in the prison where you have been kept; the rest of you may go and take back to your starving families the corn that you have bought. 
Some men from Ziph came to Saul at Gibeah and told him that David was hiding on Mount Hachilah at the edge of the Judean wilderness. 
And he has come to Damascus with authority from the chief priests to arrest all who worship you.” 
Because of the crowd, however, they could find no way to take him in. So they carried him up on the roof, made an opening in the tiles, and let him down on his bed into the middle of the group in front of Jesus. 
The LORD will bring a terrible disease on all the nations that make war on Jerusalem. Their flesh will rot away while they are still alive; their eyes and their tongues will rot away. 
After the death of their father, Joseph's brothers said, “What if Joseph still hates us and plans to pay us back for all the harm we did to him?” 
This very day your land lies in ruins and no one lives in it. It has become a horrifying sight, and people use its name as a curse because the LORD could no longer endure your wicked and evil practices. 
Inexperienced people die because they reject wisdom. Stupid people are destroyed by their own lack of concern. 
Look at my suffering, and save me, : because I have not neglected your law. 
he told us to ask you, ‘Please forgive the crime your brothers committed when they wronged you.’ Now please forgive us the wrong that we, the servants of your father's God, have done.” Joseph cried when he received this message. 
Save me, LORD, : from liars and deceivers. 
In my own travels I have seen many things and learnt more than I can put into words. 
It was faith that made the parents of Moses hide him for three months after he was born. They saw that he was a beautiful child, and they were not afraid to disobey the king's order. 
If the first piece of bread is given to God, then the whole loaf is his also; and if the roots of a tree are offered to God, the branches are his also. 
“When you come into the land of Canaan and plant any kind of fruit tree, consider the fruit ritually unclean for the first three years. During that time you must not eat it. 
Through forty years in the desert : you provided all that they needed; : their clothing never wore out, : and their feet were not swollen with pain. 
He went at once and located the exact place where Saul and Abner son of Ner, commander of Saul's army, slept. Saul slept inside the camp, and his men camped round him. 
David's son Absalom had a beautiful unmarried sister named Tamar. Amnon, another of David's sons, fell in love with her. 
but he will judge the conduct of rulers more strictly. 
This is a message that was proclaimed in the year that King Ahaz died. 
He was like the morning star shining through the clouds, like the full moon, 
The second horror is over, but the third horror will come soon! 
What you think is the right road may lead to death. 
Punish them for what they have done, : for the evil they have committed. : Punish them for all their deeds; : give them what they deserve! 
“Or I might bring war on that country and send destructive weapons to wipe out people and animals alike, 
Moses killed it and threw the blood on all four sides of the altar. 
The children of sinners, brought up in ungodly surroundings, turn out to be hateful people. 
before you are driven away like chaff blown by the wind, before the burning anger of the LORD comes upon you, before the day when he shows his fury. 
Adaiah, Beraiah, and Shimrath. 
He does not take the side of rulers : nor favour the rich against the poor, : for he created everyone. 
because on his account many Jews were rejecting them and believing in Jesus. 
“The LORD is your mighty defender, : perfect and just in all his ways; : Your God is faithful and true; : he does what is right and fair. 
Watch for the new thing I am going to do. : It is happening already — you can see it now! : I will make a road through the wilderness : and give you streams of water there. 
He measured the room itself, and it was ten metres square. This room was beyond the central room. Then he said to me, “This is the Most Holy Place.” 
He sinned against the LORD and did not listen humbly to the prophet Jeremiah, who spoke the word of the LORD. 
King Mesha of Moab bred sheep, and every year he gave as tribute to the king of Israel 100,000 lambs, and the wool from 100,000 sheep. 
At that time David was on a fortified hill, and a group of Philistines had occupied Bethlehem. 
Because he is cunning, he will succeed in his deceitful ways. He will be proud of himself and destroy many people without warning. He will even defy the greatest King of all, but he will be destroyed without the use of any human power. 
All the people of Israel went to David at Hebron and said to him, “We are your own flesh and blood. 
Listen to the LORD's message, you descendants of Jacob, you tribes of Israel. 
Every morning each one gathered as much as he needed; and when the sun grew hot, what was left on the ground melted. 
But God will rescue me; : he will save me from the power of death. 
Keep my teaching with you all the time; write it on your heart. 
So the man named all the birds and all the animals; but not one of them was a suitable companion to help him. 
Pay attention to what you are taught, and you will be successful; trust in the LORD and you will be happy. 
So Mary Magdalene went and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord and related to them what he had told her. 
May our Lord Jesus Christ himself and God our Father, who loved us and in his grace gave us unfailing courage and a firm hope, 
No one anywhere, not even rulers of foreign nations, : believed that any invader could enter Jerusalem's gates. 
‘Bethlehem in the land of Judah, : you are by no means the least of the leading cities of Judah; : for from you will come a leader : who will guide my people Israel.’ ” 
These families of the clan of Kohath received ten cities in all, with their pasture lands. 
In this way they also would put their trust in God : and not forget what he has done, : but always obey his commandments. 
But it can be removed, as the scripture says about Moses: “His veil was removed when he turned to the Lord.”  
Then the town leaders are to take the husband and beat him. 
Any of your relatives who die in the city will be eaten by dogs, and any who die in the open country will be eaten by vultures.” 
So then, you must not despise those who were broken off like branches. How can you be proud? You are just a branch; you don't support the roots — the roots support you. 
In the twelfth year of his reign King Nebuchadnezzar went to war against King Arphaxad in the large plain round the city of Rages. 
It included Gilead, the regions of Geshur and Maacah, all Mount Hermon, and all of Bashan as far as Salecah. 
Some teachers of the Law who were sitting there thought to themselves, 
Joseph said to the king, “The two dreams mean the same thing; God has told you what he is going to do. 
I place myself in your care. : You will save me, LORD; : you are a faithful God. 
Elisha left Jericho to go to Bethel, and on the way some boys came out of a town and made fun of him. “Get out of here, baldy!” they shouted. 
Moses called together the whole community of the people of Israel and said to them, “This is what the LORD has commanded you to do
Following the example of his father, he did what was pleasing to the LORD. 
He will bring me safely back : from the battles that I fight : against so many enemies. 
They all went out into their vineyards and picked the grapes, made wine from them, and held a festival. They went into the temple of their god, where they ate and drank and spoke scornfully of Abimelech. 
but God's Spirit entered me and raised me to my feet. The LORD said to me, “Go home and shut yourself up in the house. 
Jesus then left the neighbourhood of Tyre and went on through Sidon to Lake Galilee, going by way of the territory of the Ten Towns. 
But Christ has already come as the High Priest of the good things that are already here. The tent in which he serves is greater and more perfect; it is not a tent made by human hands, that is, it is not a part of this created world. 
Give us now as much happiness as the sadness you gave us : during all our years of misery. 
Cut to the right and the left, you sharp sword! Cut wherever you turn.  
He has his winnowing shovel with him to thresh out all the grain. He will gather his wheat into his barn, but he will burn the chaff in a fire that never goes out.” 
when he saw Jesus walking by. “There is the Lamb of God!” he said. 
The LORD says, “I am angry with those foreigners who rule my people, and I am going to punish them. The people of Judah are mine, and I, the LORD Almighty, will take care of them. They will be my powerful war horses. 
They put fifty loops on the first piece of the first set and fifty loops matching them on the last piece of the second set. 
This included all the towns round these cities as far as Baalath Beer (or Ramah), in the south. This was the land which the families of the tribe of Simeon received as their possession. 
and from Bamoth to the valley in the territory of the Moabites, below the top of Mount Pisgah, looking out over the desert. 
You must realize that the LORD has chosen you to build his holy Temple. Now do it — and do it with determination.” 
The word of the Lord spread everywhere in that region. 
You are the most handsome of men; : you are an eloquent speaker. : God has always blessed you. 
and said, “From the very ground on which the LORD put a curse, this child will bring us relief from all our hard work”; so he named him Noah.  
Be sorrowful, cry, and weep; change your laughter into crying, your joy into gloom! 
Actually, he did not say this of his own accord; rather, as he was High Priest that year, he was prophesying that Jesus was going to die for the Jewish people, 
Moses said to the people, “Remember this day — the day on which you left Egypt, the place where you were slaves. This is the day the LORD brought you out by his great power. No leavened bread is to be eaten. 
When he is angry, who can survive? : Who can survive his terrible fury? : He pours out his flaming anger; : rocks crumble to dust before him. 
Jewish men were marrying foreign women, and so God's holy people had become contaminated. The leaders and officials were the chief offenders. 
When a man has an emission of semen, he must bathe his whole body, and he remains unclean until evening. 
After these things had happened, Paul made up his mind to travel through Macedonia and Achaia and go on to Jerusalem. “After I go there,” he said, “I must also see Rome.” 
David then asked, “Who will let me know if your father answers you angrily?” 
Before he had finished praying, Rebecca arrived with a water jar on her shoulder. She was the daughter of Bethuel, who was the son of Abraham's brother Nahor and his wife Milcah. 
Whatever happens or can happen has already happened before. God makes the same thing happen again and again. 
Benhesed: the cities of Arubboth and Socoh and all the territory of Hepher 
They stripped off his clothes and put a scarlet robe on him. 
They captured the two Midianite chiefs, Oreb and Zeeb; they killed Oreb at Oreb Rock, and Zeeb at the Winepress of Zeeb. They continued to pursue the Midianites and brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon, who was now east of the Jordan.
The will of the Lord alone is always carried out. 
From Peter, apostle of Jesus Christ — : To God's chosen people who live as refugees scattered throughout the provinces of Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia. 
and built your home on the waters above. : You use the clouds as your chariot : and ride on the wings of the wind. 
“I have told you this so that my joy may be in you and that your joy may be complete.  
Syria, together with Israel and its king, has made a plot. 
David had reached the town of Mahanaim by the time Absalom and the Israelites had crossed the Jordan. 
How great is your constant love for me! : You have saved me from the grave itself. 
If I have stolen the land I farm : and taken it from its rightful owners — 
In the same way good deeds are plainly seen, and even those that are not so plain cannot be hidden.
He will feed you until you are embarrassed. Finally, when he has drained you two or three times over, he will laugh at you. If you see him later, he will pretend he doesn't know you, and will pass you by. 
“Reuben, my firstborn, you are my strength : And the first child of my manhood, : The proudest and strongest of all my sons. 
The LORD is king! Earth, be glad! : Rejoice, you islands of the seas! 
I will punish all who worship like pagans and who steal and kill in order to fill their master's house with loot. 
You boasted that you dug wells and drank water in foreign lands, and that the feet of your soldiers tramped the River Nile dry. 
Solomon's kingdom included all the nations from the River Euphrates to Philistia and the Egyptian border. They paid him taxes and were subject to him all his life. 
So then, you will serve the enemies that the LORD is going to send against you. You will be hungry, thirsty, and naked — in need of everything. The LORD will oppress you harshly until you are destroyed. 
he said to them, “What I am now about to do is what the LORD has commanded.” 
The next morning Balaam went to Balak's messengers and said, “Go back home; the LORD has refused to let me go with you.” 
The LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, gave me a message for Shemaiah of Nehelam, who had sent a letter in his own name to all the people of Jerusalem and to the priest Zephaniah son of Maaseiah and to all the other priests. In this letter, Shemaiah wrote to Zephaniah
So Samuel told him everything; he did not keep anything back. Eli said, “He is the LORD; he will do whatever seems best to him.” 
Jesus was driving out a demon that could not talk; and when the demon went out, the man began to talk. The crowds were amazed, 
Jaareshiah, Elijah, and Zichri. 
You have forgiven your people's sins : and pardoned all their wrongs. 
A man can inherit a house and money from his parents, but only the LORD can give him a sensible wife. 
My host Gaius, in whose house the church meets, sends you his greetings; Erastus, the city treasurer, and our brother Quartus send you their greetings. 
I, the LORD, the God of Israel, say that the houses of Jerusalem and the royal palace of Judah will be torn down as a result of the siege and the attack. 
The king was overcome with grief. He went up to the room over the gateway and wept. As he went, he cried, “O my son! My son Absalom! Absalom, my son! If only I had died in your place, my son! Absalom, my son!”
The family records list the following clan leaders in the tribe of Reuben: Jeiel, Zechariah, 
God said to Noah and his sons, 
He sent for his son Solomon and commanded him to build a temple for the LORD, the God of Israel. 
Give me the firstborn of your cattle and your sheep. Let the firstborn male stay with its mother for seven days, and on the eighth day offer it to me. 
Whatever you do be careful; this is keeping the Lord's commands. 
If it is the High Priest who sins and so brings guilt on the people, he shall present a young bull without any defects and sacrifice it to the LORD for his sin. 
Prejudice is wrong. But some judges will do wrong to get even the smallest bribe. 
Early the following morning he went off to find Saul. He heard that Saul had gone to the town of Carmel, where he had built a monument to himself, and then had gone on to Gilgal. 
Peter was still trying to understand what the vision meant, when the Spirit said, “Listen! Three men are here looking for you. 
How powerful you are! : How great is your strength! 
I will scatter my people before their enemies, : like dust blown by the east wind. : I will turn my back on them; : I will not help them when the disaster comes.” 
At the ripe old age of 117, Tobias died, 
That is why I told you that you will die in your sins. And you will die in your sins if you do not believe that ‘I Am Who I Am’.” 
He knew very well that the Jewish authorities had handed Jesus over to him because they were jealous. 
The two scoundrels publicly accused him of cursing God and the king, and so he was taken outside the city and stoned to death. 
There was much whispering about him in the crowd. “He is a good man,” some people said. “No,” others said, “he is misleading the people.” 
As for you Gentiles, you disobeyed God in the past; but now you have received God's mercy because the Jews were disobedient. 
Their arrows are sharp, and their bows are ready to shoot. Their horses' hooves are as hard as flint, and their chariot-wheels turn like a whirlwind. 
You have kept the promise you made to my father David; today every word has been fulfilled. 
He will take a tenth of your flocks. And you yourselves will become his slaves. 
Then the LORD told me that, even though Israel had turned away from him, she had proved to be better than unfaithful Judah. 
Finally Herodias got her chance. It was on Herod's birthday, when he gave a feast for all the chief government officials, the military commanders, and the leading citizens of Galilee. 
Don't refuse to help a beggar who is in distress. Don't turn your back on a poor person or give him any reason to curse you. 
Another man who turned against King Solomon was one of his officials, Jeroboam son of Nebat, from Zeredah in Ephraim. His mother was a widow named Zeruah. 
But he had no sexual relations with her before she gave birth to her son. And Joseph named him Jesus.
But you are excited and glare at us in anger. 
So he said to them, “I am going to come back safe and sound, and when I do, I will tear your tower down!” 
five of you will be able to defeat a hundred, and a hundred will be able to defeat 10,000. 
Let everyone near and far hear what I have done and acknowledge my power.” 
His sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in Machpelah Cave, in the field east of Mamre that had belonged to Ephron son of Zohar the Hittite. 
I will get up and go to my father and say, Father, I have sinned against God and against you.  
So Ahab called in the prophets, about 400 of them, and asked them, “Should I go and attack Ramoth, or not?” : “Attack it,” they answered. “God will give you victory.” 
Then there was a famine all over Egypt and Canaan, which caused much suffering. Our ancestors could not find any food, 
As the two women were walking through the valley, an Assyrian patrol met them. 
In the future, when your son asks what this observance means, you will answer him, ‘By using great power the LORD brought us out of Egypt, the place where we were slaves. 
When someone righteous stops doing good and starts doing evil, he will die for it. 
And you, too, will speak about me, because you have been with me from the very beginning.
He rules the world with righteousness; : he judges the nations with justice. 
When King Solomon finished all the work on the Temple, he placed in the temple storerooms all the things that his father David had dedicated to the LORD — the silver, gold, and other articles.
They will ask the way to Zion and then go in that direction. They will make an eternal covenant with me and never break it. 
You, my king, will have many sons : to succeed your ancestors as kings, : and you will make them rulers over the whole earth. 
Then our enemies will see this and be disgraced — the same enemies who taunted us by asking, “Where is the LORD your God?” We will see them defeated, trampled down like mud in the streets. 
David heard of it and sent Joab against them with the whole army. 
Don't give its soldiers time to shoot their arrows or to put on their armour. Do not spare the young men! Destroy the whole army! 
Well, I am putting some wool on the ground where we thresh the wheat. If in the morning there is dew only on the wool but not on the ground, then I will know that you are going to use me to rescue Israel.” 
And if your foot makes you lose your faith, cut it off! It is better for you to enter life without a foot than to keep both feet and be thrown into hell.  
and captured all the women; they had not killed anyone, but had taken everyone with them when they left. 
“My Father has given me all things. No one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son and those to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. 
But anyone who is alive in the world of the living has some hope; a live dog is better off than a dead lion. 
They said to him, “Please ask God if we are going to be successful on our journey.” 
Keep company with the wise and you will become wise. If you make friends with stupid people, you will be ruined. 
So when Joseph woke up, he married Mary, as the angel of the Lord had told him to do. 
He captured the fortified cities of Judah and advanced as far as Jerusalem. 
May the grace of the Lord Jesus be with everyone.
But a proclamation issued in the king's name and stamped with the royal seal cannot be revoked. You may, however, write to the Jews whatever you wish; and you may write it in my name and stamp it with the royal seal.” 
The people kept quiet, just as King Hezekiah had told them to; they did not say a word. 
Anyone who disobeys the Law of Moses is put to death without any mercy when judged guilty on the evidence of two or more witnesses. 
The day of disaster is coming for Israel. Violence is flourishing. Pride is at its height.  
Laban went and searched Jacob's tent; then he went into Leah's tent, and the tent of the two slave women, but he did not find his gods. Then he went into Rachel's tent. 
In the second year that Nebuchadnezzar was king, he had a dream. It worried him so much that he couldn't sleep, 
And I heard God say to the other men, “Follow him through the city, and kill. Spare no one; have mercy on no one. 
“Don't worry about them! They are blind leaders of the blind; and when one blind man leads another, both fall into a ditch.” 
A hymn should be an expression of wisdom, inspired by the Lord himself. 
Offer these and the wine offering in addition to the daily burnt offering and grain offering.
Even if you are scattered to the farthest corners of the earth, the LORD your God will gather you together and bring you back, 
“Then you are not that Egyptian fellow who some time ago started a revolution and led 4,000 armed terrorists out into the desert?” 
They were not loyal to him; : they were not faithful to their covenant with him. 
Make twenty frames for the north side of the Tent 
There was a platform for the Levites, and on it stood Jeshua, Bani, Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani, and Chenani. They prayed aloud to the LORD their God. 
Will fishermen bargain over him? : Will merchants cut him up to sell? 
It is to have a hole for the head, and this hole is to be reinforced with a woven binding to keep it from tearing. 
The LORD buried him in a valley in Moab, opposite the town of Bethpeor, but to this day no one knows the exact place of his burial. 
They gave us many gifts, and when we sailed, they put on board what we needed for the voyage. 
Then in their trouble they called to the LORD, : and he saved them from their distress. 
A wise king will find out who is doing wrong, and will punish him without pity. 
But now, Jesus has been given priestly work which is superior to theirs, just as the covenant which he arranged between God and his people is a better one, because it is based on promises of better things. 
If you give your servants everything they want from childhood on, some day they will take over everything you own. 
I will start a fire in the land of Magog and along all the coasts where people live undisturbed, and everyone will know that I am the LORD. 
Then the LORD spoke to me, and I told the men who had been sent to me 
So I tell you now that I will not drive these people out as you advance. They will be your enemies, and you will be trapped by the worship of their gods.” 
After David had finished offering the sacrifices, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD  
But even poisonous snakes could not overcome your people, because you had mercy, helped them, and cured them. 
When they heard him speaking to them in Hebrew, they became even quieter; and Paul went on
But the Israelites said, “Why should we make a treaty with you? Maybe you live nearby.” 
Don't look down on me because of my colour, : because the sun has tanned me. : My brothers were angry with me : and made me work in the vineyard. : I had no time to care for myself. 
Tell me, where did John's right to baptize come from: was it from God or from human beings?” 
But have reverence for Christ in your hearts, and honour him as Lord. Be ready at all times to answer anyone who asks you to explain the hope you have in you, 
Then the LORD said to Moses, “The king is very stubborn and refuses to let the people go. 
He will hold us responsible for the slaughter and captivity of our people and for the destruction of the land we have inherited. We will be despised and mocked by the people in those nations to which we will be taken as slaves. 
Who is this whose glance is like the dawn? : She is beautiful and bright, : as dazzling as the sun or the moon. 
who gave himself to redeem everyone. That was the proof at the right time that God wants everyone to be saved, 
May those who are wise think about these things; : may they consider the LORD's constant love.
So Ishbosheth took her away from her husband Paltiel son of Laish. 
Jezer, and Shillem. 
Above all, my brothers and sisters, do not use an oath when you make a promise. Do not swear by heaven or by earth or by anything else. Say only “Yes” when you mean yes, and “No” when you mean no, and then you will not come under God's judgement. 
You did not even let me kiss my grandchildren and my daughters goodbye. That was a foolish thing to do! 
At the same time we captured and destroyed every town, and put everyone to death, men, women, and children. We left no survivors. 
I call to the LORD, : and he saves me from my enemies. : Praise the LORD! 
So the servants answered, “Haman is here, waiting to see you.” : “Show him in,” said the king. 
Now, I assure you that wherever the gospel is preached all over the world, what she has done will be told in memory of her.” 
“What about you?” he asked them. “Who do you say I am?” : Peter answered, “You are the Messiah.” 
Simeon blessed them and said to Mary, his mother, “This child is chosen by God for the destruction and the salvation of many in Israel. He will be a sign from God which many people will speak against 
He will destroy the sacred stone monuments at Heliopolis in Egypt and will burn down the temples of the Egyptian gods.”
When Judith came towards him and his servants, they were all astonished at her beauty. She bowed down to the ground before Holofernes, but his servants helped her to her feet.
“Why wasn't this perfume sold for 300 silver coins and the money given to the poor?” 
Joab said to Amasa, “How are you, my friend?” and took hold of his beard with his right-hand in order to kiss him. 
Once again the people of Israel sinned against the LORD, so he let the people of Midian rule them for seven years. 
When King Solomon finished all the work on the Temple, he placed in the temple storerooms all the things that his father David had dedicated to the LORD — the silver, gold, and other articles. 
The rest of the history of Abijah, what he said and what he did, is written in The History of Iddo the Prophet.
What do you think you will gain by going to Egypt : to drink water from the Nile? : What do you think you will gain by going to Assyria : to drink water from the Euphrates? 
King David was now a very old man, and although his servants covered him with blankets, he could not keep warm. 
At one time he was of no use to you, but now he is useful both to you and to me. 
“Who can ever learn the will of God? 
“When you are suffering from a dreaded skin disease, be sure to do exactly what the levitical priests tell you; follow the instructions that I have given them. 
It extends eastwards to the eastern boundary and westwards to the Mediterranean Sea, and is bounded on the north by the section belonging to Judah and on the south by the section belonging to Benjamin. 
Then the woman left her water jar, went back to the town, and said to the people there, 
At Riblah he put Zedekiah's sons to death while Zedekiah was looking on and he also had the officials of Judah executed. 
But Paul defended himself: “I have done nothing wrong against the Law of the Jews or against the Temple or against the Roman Emperor.” 
No! Instead, we should ask God for his help and wait patiently for him to rescue us. If he wants to, he will answer our cry for help. 
An idea well expressed is like a design of gold, set in silver. 
yet if he is caught, he must pay back seven times more — he must give up everything he has. 
But I got busy with other things, and the man escaped.” : The king answered, “You have pronounced your own sentence, and you will have to pay the penalty.” 
So every man cut off a branch of a tree; then they followed Abimelech and piled the wood up against the stronghold. They set it on fire, with the people inside, and all the people of the fort died — about a thousand men and women. 
My dear friends, I was doing my best to write to you about the salvation we share in common, when I felt the need of writing at once to encourage you to fight on for the faith which once and for all God has given to his people. 
After all this, there is only one thing to say: have reverence for God, and obey his commands, because this is all that human beings were created for. 
But I will punish the people who love to worship filthy, disgusting idols. I will punish them for what they have done.” The Sovereign LORD has spoken. 
Then the commander called two of his officers and said, “Get 200 soldiers ready to go to Caesarea, together with seventy horsemen and 200 spearmen, and be ready to leave by nine o'clock tonight. 
that he would save us from our enemies, : from the power of all those who hate us. 
Greet one another with the kiss of Christian love. : May peace be with all of you who belong to Christ.
They arrived once again in Jerusalem. As Jesus was walking in the Temple, the chief priests, the teachers of the Law, and the elders came to him 
His wife Edna and his daughter Sarah also wept for Tobit. : Raguel gave Tobias and Raphael a warm welcome and had one of his rams slaughtered. After the guests had bathed and were about to sit down to eat, Tobias said to Raphael, “Azarias, my friend, when are you going to ask Raguel to let me marry Sarah?” 
LORD, you have been merciful to your land; : you have made Israel prosperous again. 
With my own eyes I have seen your salvation, 
These guards were assisted by their relatives, who lived in the villages and who had to take turns at guard duty for seven days at a time. 
So then, you are no longer a slave but a son or daughter. And since that is what you are, God will give you all that he has for his heirs. 
When you said, “Come and worship me,” : I answered, “I will come, LORD; 
When one person blesses and somebody else curses, which one is the Lord going to listen to? 
the covenant he made with Abraham, : the promise he made to Isaac. 
you kept me from the grave. : I was on my way to the depths below, : but you restored my life. 
He sent his servants to tell the invited guests to come to the feast, but they did not want to come.  
All this I do for the gospel's sake, in order to share in its blessings. 
Everyone who saw me or heard of me : had good things to say about what I had done. 
The priests stood in the middle of the Jordan until everything had been done that the LORD ordered Joshua to tell the people to do. This is what Moses had commanded. : The people hurried across the river. 
When an educated person hears something that shows insight, it stimulates his mind and leads him on to other ideas. But when someone who is satisfied with ignorance hears it, he won't like it, and will forget it as soon as he can. 
The LORD spoke to me. 
The tops of the columns were decorated with a design of interwoven chains and 100 bronze pomegranates.  
There they crucified him; and they also crucified two other men, one on each side, with Jesus between them. 
He left them, got back into the boat, and started across to the other side of the lake. 
Again the LORD said to Moses, “Now that you are going back to Egypt, be sure to perform before the king all the miracles which I have given you the power to do. But I will make the king stubborn, and he will not let the people go. 
He knows what we are made of; : he remembers that we are dust. 
There is also the moon, marking the passage of time, : an eternal sign of the changing seasons. 
He was followed by other members of his clan — Shemaiah, Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, Judah, and Hanani — all of whom carried musical instruments of the kind played by King David, the man of God. Ezra the scholar led this group in the procession. 
“Follow me,” Jesus answered, “and let the dead bury their own dead.” 
Then tell them, ‘We were slaves of the king of Egypt, and the LORD rescued us by his great power. 
It will burn day and night, and smoke will rise from it for ever. The land will lie waste age after age, and no one will ever travel through it again. 
Then the man took me to the north gateway. He measured it, and it was the same size as the others. 
Abraham spoke again: “Perhaps there will be only forty.” : He replied, “I will not destroy it if there are forty.” 
For no one is put right in God's sight by doing what the Law requires; what the Law does is to make people know that they have sinned. 
In his life on earth Jesus made his prayers and requests with loud cries and tears to God, who could save him from death. Because he was humble and devoted, God heard him. 
He called down and told the king, and the king said, “If he is alone, he is bringing good news.” The runner came nearer and nearer. 
By day he led them with a cloud : and all night long with the light of a fire. 
But the pasture land round the Levite cities shall never be sold; it is their property for ever. 
“Go and tell David that I am giving him three choices. I will do whichever he chooses.” 
But then, O Lord, I remembered how merciful you are : and what you had done in times past. : I remembered that you rescue those who rely on you, : that you save them from their enemies. 
In his distress King Belshazzar grew even paler, and his noblemen had no idea what to do. 
If you follow my advice, God will do something great with you, and my lord will not fail in his plan. 
He has brought down mighty kings from their thrones, : and lifted up the lowly. 
Rahab lived in a house built into the city wall, so she let the men down from the window by a rope. 
A woman there had an evil spirit that had made her ill for eighteen years; she was bent over and could not straighten up at all. 
The descendants of Eleazar and of Ithamar took turns in drawing lots. Then they were registered by Shemaiah son of Nethanel, a Levite secretary. The king, his officials, the priest Zadok, Ahimelech son of Abiathar, and the heads of the priestly families and of the Levite families, were all witnesses. 
I would rather live in the same house with a lion or a dragon than with a bad wife. 
“Stranger! Come here and lay the table! I want to eat what you've got there! Give it here! 
A wooden beam can be put into a building so firmly that an earthquake cannot shake it loose; a person can be trained to use reason and good sense so well that he keeps his head when a crisis comes. 
Solomon loved many foreign women. Besides the daughter of the king of Egypt he married Hittite women and women from Moab, Ammon, Edom, and Sidon. 
For some godless people have slipped in unnoticed among us, persons who distort the message about the grace of our God in order to excuse their immoral ways, and who reject Jesus Christ, our only Master and Lord. Long ago the Scriptures predicted the condemnation they have received. 
Whenever you sow your seeds, the LORD will send rain to make them grow and will give you a rich harvest, and your livestock will have plenty of pasture. 
For seven days you must eat unleavened bread and on the seventh day there is to be a festival to honour the LORD. 
When the Israelites saw the king and his army marching against them, they were terrified and cried out to the LORD for help. 
You are leaving Egypt on this day in the first month, the month of Abib. 
Listen, O LORD, to my plea for justice; : pay attention to my cry for help! : Listen to my honest prayer. 
A soft wind from the south began to blow, and the men thought that they could carry out their plan, so they pulled up the anchor and sailed as close as possible along the coast of Crete. 
Zedekiah was 21 years old when he became king of Judah, and he ruled in Jerusalem for eleven years. 
As the scripture says, “Everyone who calls out to the Lord for help will be saved.” 
The breath of God freezes the waters, : and turns them to solid ice. 
Remember that you were slaves in Egypt and that the LORD your God set you free; that is why I have given you this command. 
There in the Temple he found people selling cattle, sheep, and pigeons, and also the moneychangers sitting at their tables. 
Don't let a bad wife have her way, any more than you would allow water to leak from your cistern. 
He does not let sinners live on, : and he always treats the poor with justice. 
But even if we speak like this, dear friends, we feel sure about you. We know that you have the better blessings that belong to your salvation. 
and then he added, “I have something to ask of you.” : “What is it?” she asked. 
When a young woman still living in her father's house makes a vow to give something to the LORD or promises to abstain from something, 
Then the commander wrote a letter that went like this
Weird sights will appear before your eyes, and you will not be able to think or speak clearly. 
But he would go away to lonely places, where he prayed. 
The Pharisees, then, asked the man again how he had received his sight. He told them, “He put some mud on my eyes; I washed my face, and now I can see.” 
Uzziah died and was buried in the royal burial ground, but because of his disease he was not buried in the royal tombs. His son Jotham succeeded him as king.
After the boy had left, David got up from behind the pile of stones, fell on his knees and bowed with his face to the ground three times. Both he and Jonathan were crying as they kissed each other; David's grief was even greater than Jonathan's.  
It is just as I told you — God has shown you what he is going to do. 
But if, by the day after he hears of the vow, he has raised no objection, she must do everything that she has vowed or promised. He has affirmed the vow by not objecting on the day he heard of it. 
Once he has prepared the soil, he sows the seeds of herbs such as dill and cumin. He sows rows of wheat and barley, and at the edges of his fields he sows other grain. 
Hezekiah welcomed the messengers and showed them his wealth — his silver and gold, his spices and perfumes, and all his military equipment. There was nothing in his storerooms or anywhere in his kingdom that he did not show them. 
The descendants of Joseph said to Joshua, “Why have you given us only one part of the land to possess as our own? There are very many of us because the LORD has blessed us.” 
From Paul, Silas, and Timothy — : To the people of the church in Thessalonica, who belong to God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ
Shashak's descendants included Ishpan, Eber, Eliel, 
The advisers replied, “There is no one on the face of the earth who can tell Your Majesty what you want to know. No king, not even the greatest and most powerful, has ever made such a demand of his fortune tellers, magicians, and wizards. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “are you ready to judge the city that is full of murderers? Make clear to her all the disgusting things she has done. 
When the Moabites heard that the three kings had come to attack them, all the men who could bear arms, from the oldest to the youngest, were called out and stationed at the border. 
Again Jesus left them, went away, and prayed the third time, saying the same words. 
An angel of the Lord said to Philip, “Get ready and go south to the road that goes from Jerusalem to Gaza.” (This road is not used nowadays.)  
Peace be with you. : All your friends send greetings. Greet all our friends personally.
All the kings of the earth lie in their magnificent tombs, 
“At that time we took from those two Amorite kings the land east of the River Jordan, from the River Arnon to Mount Hermon. 
Turn to me and have mercy on me; : strengthen me and save me, : because I serve you, just as my mother did. 
Without any oxen to pull the plough your barn will be empty, but with them it will be full of corn. 
after that, he lived another 430 years and had other children. 
He did this so as to make what God had said through the prophet Isaiah come true
From the time of King David and the musician Asaph long ago, the musicians have led songs of praise and thanksgiving to God. 
People of Israel, listen to what I am saying. Have I been like a desert to you, like a dark and dangerous land? Why, then, do you say that you will do as you please, that you will never come back to me? 
The Sovereign LORD says, “The east gateway to the inner courtyard must be kept closed during the six working days, but it is to be opened on the Sabbath and at the New Moon Festival. 
He sent flies among them, that tormented them, : and frogs that ruined their land. 
Isaiah then said to the king, “The LORD Almighty says that 
When the LORD brings you into the land that you are going to occupy, you are to proclaim the blessing from Mount Gerizim and the curse from Mount Ebal. 
For all time to come, the same rules are binding on you and on the foreigners who live among you. You and they are alike in the LORD's sight; 
I, the LORD God Almighty, have not abandoned Israel and Judah, even though they have sinned against me, the Holy One of Israel. 
He died at a ripe old age, wealthy and respected, and his son Solomon succeeded him as king. 
The men of Gad and Reuben said, “Sir, we will do as you command. 
You cannot expect the Lord to pardon you while you are bearing a grudge against someone else. 
But because you are lukewarm, neither hot nor cold, I am going to spit you out of my mouth!  
Even though you have absolute power, you are a merciful judge. You could take action against us whenever you choose, but instead, you rule us with great patience. 
Then he said to Korah and his followers, “Tomorrow morning the LORD will show us who belongs to him; he will let the one who belongs to him, that is, the one he has chosen, approach him at the altar. 
If so, he deserves his wealth, and everyone will praise him for his generosity. 
Melatiah from Gibeon, Jadon from Meronoth, and the men of Gibeon and Mizpah built the next section, as far as the residence of the governor of West Euphrates. 
If you curse your parents, your life will end like a lamp that goes out in the dark. 
Because of this I will bring disaster on your dynasty and will kill all your male descendants, young and old alike. I will get rid of your family; they will be swept away like dung. 
Sinners have no use for correction, and will interpret the Law to suit themselves. 
Even those who did not die developed tumours and the people cried out to their gods for help.
Descendants of Esau, your treasures have been looted. 
Then one of the four living creatures gave the seven angels seven gold bowls full of the anger of God, who lives for ever and ever. 
Then Balaam said to Balak, “Stand here by your burnt offering, while I go to see whether or not the LORD will meet me. I will tell you whatever he reveals to me.” So he went alone to the top of a hill, 
In all, 822 members of this clan served in the Temple. : Adaiah, the son of Jeroham and grandson of Pelaliah. His ancestors included Amzi, Zechariah, Pashhur, and Malchijah. 
It took Solomon twenty years to build the Temple and his palace. 
So they got some ashes and stood before the king; Moses threw them into the air, and they produced boils that became open sores on the people and the animals. 
and be put to death. Any Israelite or any foreigner living in Israel who curses the LORD shall be stoned to death by the whole community. 
He sets the time for finding and the time for losing, : the time for saving and the time for throwing away, 
Just as animals of the same species flock together, so people keep company with people like themselves. 
a land of darkness, shadows, and confusion, : where the light itself is darkness.
“Earth and sky, hear my words, : listen closely to what I say. 
Dan will be a snake at the side of the road, : A poisonous snake beside the path, : That strikes at the horse's heel, : So that the rider is thrown off backwards. 
And so God sends the power of error to work in them so that they believe what is false. 
But they did not follow their father's example; they were interested only in making money, so they accepted bribes and did not decide cases honestly. 
“When you make a vow to the LORD your God, do not put off doing what you promised; the LORD will hold you to your vow, and it is a sin not to keep it. 
Jesus took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the village. After spitting on the man's eyes, Jesus placed his hands on him and asked him, “Can you see anything?” 
This, then, is how you should pray: :   ‘Our Father in heaven: :   May your holy name be honoured; 
He also built fortified towers in the open country and dug many cisterns, because he had large herds of livestock in the western foothills and plains. Because he loved farming, he encouraged the people to plant vineyards in the hill country and to farm the fertile land. 
I have searched in the east, but God is not there; : I have not found him when I searched in the west. 
Slaves, obey your human masters in all things, not only when they are watching you because you want to gain their approval; but do it with a sincere heart because of your reverence for the Lord. 
to whom he gave one of his daughters in marriage. They had a son named Attai. 
Abishai, whose mother was Zeruiah, said to the king, “Your Majesty, why do you let this dog curse you? Let me go over there and cut off his head!” 
Jesus said this as he taught in the synagogue in Capernaum. 
As long as you have breath in your body, don't let anyone lead your life for you. 
The olive tree answered, ‘In order to govern you, I would have to stop producing my oil, which is used to honour gods and human beings.’ 
What we have seen and heard we announce to you also, so that you will join with us in the fellowship that we have with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ. 
Who can make him open his jaws, : ringed with those terrifying teeth? 
So in this way Moses gave the people of Israel the regulations for observing the religious festivals to honour the LORD.
When Moses heard this, he fled from Egypt and went to live in the land of Midian. There he had two sons. 
When they were being tested, even though it was a merciful discipline, they learnt how wicked people were tortured when you judged them in anger. 
leaving Rehoboam as king only of the people who lived in the territory of Judah. 
This is the list of the men who had foreign wives: : Clan of Joshua and his brothers, sons of Jehozadak: Maaseiah, Eliezer, Jarib, and Gedaliah. 
The LORD had sent his messengers and prophets to warn Israel and Judah: “Abandon your evil ways and obey my commands, which are contained in the Law I gave to your ancestors and which I handed on to you through my servants the prophets.” 
He said, “Zerubbabel has laid the foundation of the Temple, and he will finish the building. When this happens, my people will know that it is I who sent you to them. 
for God will judge you in the same way as you judge others, and he will apply to you the same rules you apply to others.  
His face is bronzed and smooth; : his hair is wavy, : black as a raven. 
Let me hear the sounds of joy and gladness; : and though you have crushed me and broken me, : I will be happy once again. 
Because of this everyone on earth will know how great the LORD's power is, and you will honour the LORD your God for ever.”
The churches in the province of Asia send you their greetings; Aquila and Priscilla and the church that meets in their house send warm Christian greetings. 
The righteous hate the wicked, and the wicked hate the righteous.
“I chose you before I gave you life, and before you were born I selected you to be a prophet to the nations.” 
Remember to welcome strangers in your homes. There were some who did that and welcomed angels without knowing it. 
But the time is coming when I will make the people of the capital city of Rabbah hear the noise of battle, and it will be left in ruins and its villages burnt to the ground. Then Israel will take its land back from those who took it from them. 
At that time, I was mourning for three weeks. 
As the scripture says: : “When he went up to the very heights, : he took many captives with him; : he gave gifts to people.” 
In the desert there were Beth Arabah, Middin, Secacah, 
Saul said to his men, “Let's go down and attack the Philistines in the night, plunder them until dawn, and kill them all.” : “Do whatever you think best,” they answered. : But the priest said, “Let's consult God first.” 
I recommend to you our sister Phoebe, who serves the church at Cenchreae. 
But they have all gone wrong; : they are all equally bad. : Not one of them does what is right, : not a single one. 
Asriel, Shechem, 
If a man becomes unclean because he has had a wet dream during the night, he is to go outside the camp and stay there. 
The Philistine and the Israelite armies took up positions for battle, facing each other. 
She is always busy and looks after her family's needs. 
While King Nebuchadnezzar was ruling over the Assyrians from his capital city of Nineveh, King Arphaxad ruled over the Medes from his capital city of Ecbatana. 
Then the king gave orders to Benaiah, who went out and killed Shimei. Solomon was now in complete control.
the following regulations for the religious festivals, when the people of Israel are to gather for worship. 
Elishama, Beeliada, and Eliphelet. 
When Hezron was sixty years old, he married Machir's daughter, the sister of Gilead. They had a son named Segub, 
Jesus said to them all, “My mother and brothers are those who hear the word of God and obey it.” 
When they arrived, Samuel saw Jesse's son Eliab and said to himself, “This man standing here in the LORD's presence is surely the one he has chosen.” 
Then the people said, “Let's do something about Jeremiah! There will always be priests to instruct us, the wise to give us counsel, and prophets to proclaim God's message. Let's bring charges against him, and stop listening to what he says.” 
Jacob answered, “I am your elder son Esau; I have done as you told me. Please sit up and eat some of the meat that I have brought you, so that you can give me your blessing.” 
For all those who make themselves great will be humbled, and those who humble themselves will be made great.” 
For through the living and eternal word of God you have been born again as the children of a parent who is immortal, not mortal. 
Because he sees the ends of the earth, : Sees everything under the sky. 
They gathered to do everything that you by your power and will had already decided would happen. 
Your kingdom is founded on righteousness and justice; : love and faithfulness are shown in all you do. 
But if we live in the light — just as he is in the light — then we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his Son, purifies us from every sin. 
(The followers of Athaliah, that corrupt woman, had damaged the Temple and had used many of the sacred objects in the worship of Baal.) 
David had married Ahinoam from Jezreel, and now Abigail also became his wife. 
Then I saw another angel come out of the temple in heaven, and he also had a sharp sickle. 
May God, the source of hope, fill you with all joy and peace by means of your faith in him, so that your hope will continue to grow by the power of the Holy Spirit. 
For what is life? To me, it is Christ. Death, then, will bring more. 
Senaah — 3,630 
The people cried out to Moses for help; he prayed to the LORD, and the fire died down. 
As long as Zechariah, his religious adviser, was living, he served the LORD faithfully, and God blessed him. 
Each family is to bring two loaves of bread and present them to the LORD as a special gift. Each loaf shall be made of two kilogrammes of flour baked with yeast and shall be presented to the Lord as an offering of the first corn to be harvested. 
Their territory extended to Aroer (on the edge of the Arnon Valley) and the city in the middle of that valley and included all the plateau round Medeba. 
But Amaziah refused to listen, so King Jehoash marched out with his men and fought against him at Beth Shemesh in Judah. 
Then the Assyrian emperor Sennacherib withdrew and returned to Nineveh. 
Everyone included in the census must pay the required amount of money, weighed according to the official standard. Everyone must pay this as an offering to me. 
Jacob said, “Since it is still broad daylight and not yet time to bring the flocks in, why don't you water them and take them back to pasture?” 
My tears pour down like a river, : because people do not obey your law. 
Even if they fast, I will not listen to their cry for help; and even if they offer me burnt offerings and grain offerings, I will not be pleased with them. Instead, I will kill them in war and by starvation and disease.” 
Like trees with shallow roots, they put out leaves for a while, but they sway in the wind, and storms uproot them. 
On the east side, where the entrance is, the enclosure is also to be 22 metres wide. 
The memory of Josiah is as sweet as the fragrance of expertly blended incense, sweet as honey to the taste, like music with wine at a banquet. 
If a man commits adultery with the wife of a fellow-Israelite, both he and the woman shall be put to death. 
Jesus told them another parable: “The Kingdom of heaven is like this. A man takes a mustard seed and sows it in his field.  
He called the eldest daughter Jemimah, the second Keziah, and the youngest Keren Happuch.  
We were twelve brothers in all, sons of the same father. One brother is dead, and the youngest is still in Canaan with our father.’ 
So then, I am eager to preach the Good News to you also who live in Rome. 
Please permit us to pass through your land. We and our cattle will not leave the road or go into your fields or vineyards, and we will not drink from your wells. We will stay on the main road until we are out of your territory.” 
Let me tell you, my brothers and sisters, that the gospel I preach is not of human origin. 
The LORD took him outside and said, “Look at the sky and try to count the stars; you will have as many descendants as that.” 
and within the next three months they investigated all the cases of men with foreign wives. 
If a prophet speaks in the name of the LORD and what he says does not come true, then it is not the LORD's message. That prophet has spoken on his own authority, and you are not to fear him.
So now there are pitfalls all round you, : and suddenly you are full of fear. 
You are not to offer your sacrifices wherever you choose; 
But you, brothers and sisters, are not in the darkness, and the Day should not take you by surprise like a thief. 
The army was commanded by 2,600 officers. 
He will put the righteous people on his right and the others on his left.  
Greetings to Mary, who has worked so hard for you. 
From the part that belongs to the soldiers, withhold as a tax for the LORD one out of every 500 prisoners and the same proportion of the cattle, donkeys, sheep, and goats. 
Later, I was taken captive and deported to Assyria, and that is how I came to live in Nineveh. : While we lived in Nineveh, all my relatives and fellow-Jews used to eat the same kind of food as the other people who lived there, 
I am unimportant and despised, : but I do not neglect your teachings. 
As soon as the order was given, the people of Israel brought gifts of their finest corn, wine, olive oil, honey, and other farm produce, and they also brought the tithes of everything they had. 
From Paul, a prisoner for the sake of Christ Jesus, and from our brother Timothy — : To our friend and fellow-worker Philemon, 
God, who lives in his sacred Temple, : cares for orphans and protects widows. 
They are teaching customs that are against our law; we are Roman citizens, and we cannot accept these customs or practise them.” 
Make your plans! But they will never succeed. Talk as much as you like! But it is all useless, because God is with us. 
There is nothing that goes into a person from the outside which can make him ritually unclean. Rather, it is what comes out of a person that makes him unclean.” 
By now Balaam knew that the LORD wanted him to bless the people of Israel, so he did not go to look for omens, as he had done before. He turned towards the desert 
Truth, wisdom, learning, and good sense — these are worth paying for, but too valuable for you to sell. 
But anyone who spoils his son will have to bandage his wounds. His heart will stop every time he hears a shout. 
If it please Your Majesty, issue a royal proclamation that Vashti may never again appear before the king. Order it to be written into the laws of Persia and Media, so that it can never be changed. Then give her place as queen to some better woman. 
But the LORD replied, “The prophets are telling lies in my name; I did not send them, nor did I give them any orders or speak one word to them. The visions they talk about have not come from me; their predictions are worthless things that they have imagined. 
Among those chosen were Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, all of whom were from the tribe of Judah. 
He reveals things that are deep and secret; : he knows what is hidden in darkness, : and he himself is surrounded by light. 
A stubborn person will be burdened down with troubles. Sinners go on adding one sin to another. 
Queen Athaliah heard the noise being made by the guards and the people, so she hurried to the Temple, where the crowd had gathered. 
Be glad, earth and sky! : Roar, sea, and every creature in you; 
So Moses and Aaron went to Egypt and gathered all the Israelite leaders together. 
But am I really the one they are hurting? No, they are hurting themselves and bringing shame on themselves. 
I won't ask to speak with God; : why should I give him a chance to destroy me? 
When the Egyptians see you, they will assume that you are my wife, and so they will kill me and let you live. 
On that day I will carry out all my threats against Eli's family, from beginning to end. 
Though Abraham was practically dead, from this one man came as many descendants as there are stars in the sky, as many as the numberless grains of sand on the seashore. 
The LORD will reveal himself to the Egyptian people, and then they will acknowledge and worship him, and bring him sacrifices and offerings. They will make solemn promises to him and do what they promise. 
Before that time no one could afford to hire either men or animals, and no one was safe from his enemies. I turned people against one another. 
As David was returning after killing Goliath and as the soldiers were coming back home, women from every town in Israel came out to meet King Saul. They were singing joyful songs, dancing, and playing tambourines and lyres. 
In addition, many of those who had come from the tribes of Ephraim, Manasseh, Issachar, and Zebulun had not performed the ritual of purification, and so they were observing Passover improperly. King Hezekiah offered this prayer for them
Whoever wants to keep the Law must learn what the Law means. If you fear the Lord in every sense of the term, you will have wisdom. 
He was placed in a grave with the wicked, : he was buried with the rich, : even though he had never committed a crime : or ever told a lie.” 
Then Jehoiada led Joash out, placed the crown on his head, and gave him a copy of the laws governing kingship. And so he was made king. Jehoiada the priest and his sons anointed Joash, and everyone shouted, “Long live the king!” 
Elkanah had two sons, Amasai and Ahimoth. 
A large crowd of people followed him; among them were some women who were weeping and wailing for him. 
She does not stay on the road to life; but wanders off, and does not realize what is happening. 
When you give thanks to God in spirit only, how can ordinary people taking part in the meeting say “Amen” to your prayer of thanksgiving? They have no way of knowing what you are saying. 
So all the leaders of Israel came to King David at Hebron. He made a sacred alliance with them, they anointed him, and he became king of Israel. 
The king and all his men were worn out when they reached the Jordan, and there they rested. 
to go back to Hezekiah and say to him, “I, the LORD, the God of your ancestor David, have heard your prayer and seen your tears; I will let you live fifteen years longer. 
When the officer heard this, he went to the commander and asked him, “What are you doing? That man is a Roman citizen!” 
the following regulations about the ritual purification of a person cured of a dreaded skin disease. On the day he is to be pronounced clean, he shall be brought to the priest, 
Jesus went through towns and villages, teaching the people and making his way towards Jerusalem. 
Be strong and brave! Saul your king is dead, and the people of Judah have anointed me as their king.” 
Practise these things and devote yourself to them, in order that your progress may be seen by all. 
those who weep, as though they were not sad; those who laugh, as though they were not happy; those who buy, as though they did not own what they bought; 
But the people of Zebulun and Naphtali : risked their lives on the battlefield. 
They disobeyed the LORD's command and went into Egypt as far as the city of Tahpanhes. 
“Celebrate three festivals a year to honour me. 
Return to the LORD your God, people of Israel. Your sin has made you stumble and fall. 
The punishment for their murders will fall on Joab and on his descendants for ever. But the LORD will always give success to David's descendants who sit on his throne.” 
God put a cloud over his people : and a fire at night to give them light. 
I urge you, brothers and sisters, by our Lord Jesus Christ and by the love that the Spirit gives: join me in praying fervently to God for me. 
So she tempted him with her charms, and he gave in to her smooth talk. 
Then Jesus said to his disciples, “Why are you frightened? Have you still no faith?” 
Joshua said to him, “My son, tell the truth here before the LORD, the God of Israel, and confess. Tell me now what you have done. Don't try to hide it from me.” 
When the king of Moab realized that he was losing the battle, he took 700 swordsmen with him and tried to force his way through the enemy lines and escape to the king of Syria, but he failed. 
She became pregnant again and gave birth to another son. She said, “The LORD has given me this son also, because he heard that I was not loved”; so she named him Simeon.  
Then the priests carried the Covenant Box of the LORD into the Temple and put it in the Most Holy Place, beneath the winged creatures. 
naked and you clothed me; I was sick and you took care of me, in prison and you visited me.’ 
and Abram (also known as Abraham). 
“Jesus of Nazareth,” they answered. :   “I am he,” he said. : Judas, the traitor, was standing there with them. 
If you trick an honest person into doing evil, you will fall into your own trap. : The innocent will be well rewarded. 
Another battle took place at Gath, where there was a giant with six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot. He was a descendant of the ancient giants. 
God is angry and rages against me; : he treats me like his worst enemy. 
I said, “It was foreign women that made King Solomon sin. He was a man who was greater than any of the kings of other nations. God loved him and made him king over all Israel, and yet he fell into this sin. 
And then he said, “I have here a book that Hilkiah gave me.” And he read it aloud to the king. 
I will let the tribes of the eastern desert conquer Moab, together with Ammon, so that Moab will no longer be a nation. 
nor did I go to Jerusalem to see those who were apostles before me. Instead, I went at once to Arabia, and then I returned to Damascus. 
“Now my heart is troubled — and what shall I say? Shall I say, ‘Father, do not let this hour come upon me’? But that is why I came — so that I might go through this hour of suffering.  
The people preach at me and say, “Don't preach at us. Don't preach about all that. God is not going to disgrace us. 
“The king went in to look at the guests and saw a man who was not wearing wedding clothes.  
The contents of the proclamation were to be made public in every province, so that everyone would be prepared when that day came. 
Never again will they hunger or thirst; neither sun nor any scorching heat will burn them, 
See how I love your instructions, LORD. : Your love never changes, so save me! 
I respect and love your commandments; : I will meditate on your instructions. 
Ahaziah had become king of Judah in the eleventh year that Joram son of Ahab was king of Israel. 
and at the end of your days all will go well for you. : God will bless you on the day of your death. 
To have knowledge, you must first have reverence for the LORD. Stupid people have no respect for wisdom and refuse to learn. 
When Zechariah saw him, he was alarmed and felt afraid. 
To whom can God be compared? : How can you describe what he is like? 
You prepare a banquet for me, : where all my enemies can see me; : you welcome me as an honoured guest : and fill my cup to the brim. 
Smoke poured out of his nostrils, : a consuming flame and burning coals from his mouth. 
You yourselves know that I have worked with these hands of mine to provide everything that my companions and I have needed. 
When that spark dies, our body will crumble into ashes, and our breath will become part of the empty air. 
The young men of the cities of Heliopolis and Bubastis will die in the war, and the other people will be taken prisoner. 
Because of this I will bring all your former lovers together — the ones you liked and the ones you hated. I will bring them round you in a circle, and then I will strip off your clothes and let them see you naked. 
Instead, be faithful to the LORD, as you have been till now. 
I will keep my promise and make you mine, : and you will acknowledge me as LORD. 
I will extend his kingdom : from the Mediterranean to the River Euphrates. 
David was very angry with the rich man and said, “I swear by the living LORD that the man who did this ought to die! 
He took about 5,000 men and put them in hiding west of the city, between Ai and Bethel. 
“When the whole mountain was on fire and you heard the voice from the darkness, your leaders and the chiefs of your tribes came to me 
They provide water for the wild animals; : there the wild donkeys quench their thirst. 
Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him. “I do want to,” he answered. “Be clean!” At once the man was healed of his disease. 
But once more God will send us his Spirit. The waste land will become fertile, and fields will produce rich crops. 
Hate what is evil, love what is right, and see that justice prevails in the courts. Perhaps the LORD will be merciful to the people of this nation who are still left alive. 
Take such lifeless musical instruments as the flute or the harp — how will anyone know the tune that is being played unless the notes are sounded distinctly? 
a slave who becomes a king, : a fool who has all he wants to eat, 
“When there is famine in the land or an epidemic, or the crops are destroyed by scorching winds or swarms of locusts, or when your people are attacked by their enemies, or when there is disease or sickness among them, 
They both lived good lives in God's sight and obeyed fully all the Lord's laws and commands. 
“I make this covenant with you: I promise that you will be the ancestor of many nations. 
So in accordance with the LORD's command the people of Israel gave the Levites certain cities and pasture lands out of their own territories. 
As the Lord lives, I swear that Holofernes never touched me, although my beauty deceived him and brought him to his ruin. I was not defiled or disgraced; the Lord took care of me through it all.” 
Keep your promise to me, your servant — : the promise you make to those who obey you. 
Jesus told them another parable: “The Kingdom of heaven is like this. A man sowed good seed in his field.  
All of them are stupid and foolish. : What can they learn from wooden idols? 
“Come back in three days and I will give you my answer,” he replied. So they left. 
The supplies Solomon needed each day were 5,000 litres of fine flour and 10,000 litres of meal; 
Your pride has deceived you. : Your capital is a fortress of solid rock; : your home is high in the mountains, : and so you say to yourself, : ‘Who can ever pull me down?’ 
Fathers will be against their sons, and sons against their fathers; mothers will be against their daughters, and daughters against their mothers; mothers-in-law will be against their daughters-in-law, and daughters-in-law against their mothers-in-law.” 
Everyone will live in peace : among his own vineyards and fig trees, : and no one will make him afraid. : The LORD Almighty has promised this. 
You will drink and drain it dry, : and with its broken pieces : tear your breast. : I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken.” 
Joab answered, “May the LORD make the people of Israel a hundred times more numerous than they are now! Your Majesty, they are all your servants. Why do you want to do this and make the whole nation guilty?” 
Roar, sea, and every creature in you; : sing, earth, and all who live on you! 
When some fool starts an argument, he is asking for a beating. 
The Egyptians could not see each other, and no one left his house during that time. But the Israelites had light where they were living. 
She used to sit under a certain palm tree between Ramah and Bethel in the hill country of Ephraim, and the people of Israel would go there for her decisions. 
(The towns in the territories of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin, mentioned above, were also assigned by drawing lots.) 
So then, just as sin ruled by means of death, so also God's grace rules by means of righteousness, leading us to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.
He refuses to do evil and doesn't lend money for profit. He keeps my laws and obeys my commands. He will not die because of his father's sins, but he will certainly live. 
“But then I took pity on them. I decided not to kill them there in the desert. 
As soon as they spoke, I was about to write. But I heard a voice speak from heaven, “Keep secret what the seven thunders have said; do not write it down!” 
Temple musicians (descendants of Asaph) — 128 
They have mouths, but cannot speak, : and eyes, but cannot see. 
Each gateway was thirty metres high and eighteen metres wide — wide enough for his whole army to march through, with the infantry in formation. 
Because many of the people were not ritually clean, they could not kill the Passover lambs, so the Levites did it for them, and dedicated the lambs to the LORD. 
If you should be unable to pay, they will take away even your bed. 
In the seventh year of the reign of King Jehu of Israel, Joash became king of Judah, and he ruled in Jerusalem for forty years. His mother was Zibiah from the city of Beersheba. 
Kenan the father of Mahalalel, Mahalalel the father of Jared. 
nor do they eat anything that comes from the market unless they wash it first. And they follow many other rules which they have received, such as the proper way to wash cups, pots, copper bowls, and beds.) 
Jehud, Beneberak, Gathrimmon, 
Many enemies surround me like bulls; : they are all round me, : like fierce bulls from the land of Bashan. 
The beast was taken prisoner, together with the false prophet who had performed miracles in his presence. (It was by those miracles that he had deceived those who had the mark of the beast and those who had worshipped the image of the beast.) The beast and the false prophet were both thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns with sulphur. 
Those who say such things make it clear that they are looking for a country of their own. 
After Jesus had said this, he was deeply troubled and declared openly, “I am telling you the truth: one of you is going to betray me.” 
I am telling you the truth: the time is coming — the time has already come — when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear it will come to life.  
Anyone, young or old, male or female, who did not worship him was to be put to death. 
David was the youngest son, and while the three eldest brothers stayed with Saul, 
It was for this reason that these Jews seized me while I was in the Temple, and they tried to kill me. 
“Jerusalem, holy city of our God, : he will punish you for the sins of your people, : but he will be merciful to all who do right. 
but some good person will wear the clothes, : and some honest person will get the silver. 
Whatever you do, remember that some day you must die. As long as you keep this in mind, you will never sin.
On the 24th day of the first month of the year, I was standing on the bank of the mighty River Tigris. 
Across the courtyard from this north gateway was another gateway leading to the inner courtyard, just as there was on the east side. The man measured the distance between these two gateways, and it was fifty metres. 
“Tell the archers to attack Babylon. Send out everyone who knows how to use the bow and arrow. Surround the city and don't let anyone escape. Pay it back for all it has done, and treat it as it has treated others, because it acted with pride against me, the Holy One of Israel. 
Anyone stupid enough to promise to be responsible for a stranger's debts ought to have his own property held to guarantee payment. 
Lamech said to his wives, : “Adah and Zillah, listen to me: I have killed a young man because he struck me. 
Don't stick out your hand to get something if you're going to be tightfisted when the time comes to pay it back.
With my own hand I write this: Greetings from Paul. 
When you turn away, they are afraid; : when you take away your breath, they die : and go back to the dust from which they came. 
I help kings to govern : and rulers to make good laws. 
For we brought the Good News to you, not with words only, but also with power and the Holy Spirit, and with complete conviction of its truth. You know how we lived when we were with you; it was for your own good. 
If a boy is circumcised on the Sabbath so that Moses' Law is not broken, why are you angry with me because I made a man completely well on the Sabbath?  
(Hiram's fleet, which had brought gold from Ophir, also brought from there a large amount of juniper wood and jewels. 
From the city he took the officer who had been in command of the troops, five of the king's personal advisers who were still in the city, the commander's assistant, who was in charge of military records, and sixty other important men. 
and shouted to Saul's troops and to Abner, “Abner! Can you hear me?” : “Who is that shouting and waking up the king?” Abner asked. 
Israel, you belonged to me alone; : you were my sacred possession. : I sent suffering and disaster : on everyone who hurt you. : I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
The angel of the LORD called to Abraham from heaven a second time, 
The LORD was with Joseph and made him successful. He lived in the house of his Egyptian master, 
I saw all this when I thought about the things that are done in this world, a world where some people have power and others have to suffer under them. 
On the sixth day offer eight young bulls, two rams, and fourteen one-year-old male lambs, all without any defects. 
“These people have received the Holy Spirit, just as we also did. Can anyone, then, stop them from being baptized with water?” 
And God is able to give you more than you need, so that you will always have all you need for yourselves and more than enough for every good cause. 
“Our Lord and God! You are worthy : to receive glory, honour, and power. : For you created all things, : and by your will they were given existence and life.”
Many people came to him. “John performed no miracles,” they said, “but everything he said about this man was true.” 
God, who made the world and everything in it, is Lord of heaven and earth and does not live in temples made by human hands. 
The tribe of Judah: the clans of Shelah, Perez, Zerah, Hezron, and Hamul. (Two of Judah's sons, Er and Onan, had died in the land of Canaan.) 
Give these instructions to the whole community of Israel: on the tenth day of this month each man must choose either a lamb or a young goat for his household. 
With the same act you punished our enemies and did us the glorious honour of calling us to yourself. 
(The men of King Hiram and of King Solomon who brought gold from Ophir also brought juniper wood and jewels. 
During Jehoram's reign Edom revolted against Judah and became an independent kingdom. 
If I had said such things, : I would not be acting as one of your people. 
“Captain Cornelius sent us,” they answered. “He is a good man who worships God and is highly respected by all the Jewish people. An angel of God told him to invite you to his house, so that he could hear what you have to say.” 
If you do not obey the law, God will find your prayers too hateful to hear. 
Make projections at the top of the four corners. They are to form one piece with the altar, and the whole is to be covered with bronze. 
“Now, you shepherds, listen to what I, the LORD, am telling you. 
This happened so that the people whom you loved, O Lord, might learn that they are not fed by what they can grow. It is your word that maintains those who put their trust in you. 
Evening passed and morning came — that was the fifth day. 
Then that servant's master will come back one day when the servant does not expect him and at a time he does not know.  
When the Philistines heard that the Israelites had gathered at Mizpah, the five Philistine kings started out with their men to attack them. The Israelites heard about it and were afraid, 
But I will sing about your strength; : every morning I will sing aloud of your constant love. : You have been a refuge for me, : a shelter in my time of trouble. 
to give the Israelites the following instructions. It may happen that a man becomes suspicious that his wife is unfaithful to him and has defiled herself by having intercourse with another man. But the husband may not be certain, for his wife may have kept it secret — there was no witness, and she was not caught in the act. Or it may happen that a husband becomes suspicious of his wife, even though she has not been unfaithful. 
and said to her, “Stop making a drunken show of yourself! Stop your drinking and sober up!” 
Each of you should remain as you were when you accepted God's call. 
His family will be known in Israel as ‘the family of the man who had his sandal pulled off.’ 
Clans of Levites who returned from exile
even though in the past I spoke evil of him and persecuted and insulted him. But God was merciful to me because I did not yet have faith and so did not know what I was doing. 
“Listen to me, you that know what is right, : who have my teaching fixed in your hearts. : Do not be afraid when people taunt and insult you; 
Andrew, Philip, Bartholomew, Matthew, Thomas, James son of Alphaeus, Thaddaeus, Simon the Patriot, 
Anyone who pays attention to slander can never find peace of mind. 
I can assure you that they are deeply devoted to God; but their devotion is not based on true knowledge. 
And after you have proved your complete loyalty, we will be ready to punish any act of disloyalty. 
The descendants of Manasseh controlled the cities of Beth Shan, Taanach, Megiddo, and Dor, and the towns round them. : All these are the places where the descendants of Joseph son of Jacob lived. 
May God cause Japheth to increase! : May his descendants live with the people of Shem! : Canaan will be the slave of Japheth.” 
Since the firstborn Israelite sons outnumber the Levites by 273, you must buy back the extra sons. 
All food doesn't agree with everyone, and everyone doesn't like the same kinds of food. 
Israel will conquer her enemies and destroy them all. 
Your constant love reaches the heavens; : your faithfulness touches the skies. 
and to the kings in the hill country in the north, in the Jordan Valley south of Lake Galilee, in the foothills, and on the coast near Dor. 
The LORD said, “Jeremiah, do not pray for these people. Do not cry or pray on their behalf; do not plead with me, for I will not listen to you. 
You have wounded me with your arrows; : you have struck me down. 
For the bread that God gives is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world.” 
Ahimaaz, who was married to Basemath, another of Solomon's daughters: the territory of Naphtali 
“You wicked, unholy ruler of Israel, your day, the day of your final punishment, is coming. 
and gave them the following orders: “When you come on duty on the Sabbath, one third of you are to guard the palace; 
and so the LORD says that the daughters of Zelophehad are free to marry anyone they wish but only within their own tribe. 
Keep me obedient to your commandments, : because in them I find happiness. 
However, he took Armoni and Mephibosheth, the two sons that Rizpah the daughter of Aiah had borne to Saul; he also took the five sons of Saul's daughter Merab, whom she had borne to Adriel son of Barzillai, who was from Meholah. 
God had said to him, “It is through Isaac that you will have the descendants I promised.” 
Hur's son was Uri, and his grandson was Bezalel. 
Immediately Belshazzar ordered his servants to dress Daniel in a robe of royal purple and to hang a gold chain of honour round his neck. And he made him the third in power in the kingdom. 
And Christ himself is the means by which our sins are forgiven, and not our sins only, but also the sins of everyone. 
Shobal was the ancestor of the clans of Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho, and Onam. 
Her husband has the right to affirm or to annul any vow or promise that she has made. 
(For the Pharisees, as well as the rest of the Jews, follow the teaching they received from their ancestors: they do not eat unless they wash their hands in the proper way; 
We can't stand the sight of people like that; what they are contradicts our whole way of thinking. 
Tobit questioned him further, “Tell me, my friend, what family and tribe do you belong to?” 
They were panic-stricken by the sighing of the wind or by the singing of birds in the trees or by the roar of rushing water or by the rumble of falling rocks or by the sound of unseen creatures running about or by the savage roaring of wild animals or by the echoes from the mountains. 
“The western border will be the Mediterranean Sea. 
When evening came, Jesus' disciples went down to the lake, 
He is the head of his body, the church; he is the source of the body's life. He is the firstborn Son, who was raised from death, in order that he alone might have the first place in all things. 
The emperor sent some army officers and a troop of horsemen with me, and I made the journey to West Euphrates. There I gave the emperor's letters to the governors. 
except those that hop. 
Hilkiah, Ahikam, Achbor, Shaphan, and Asaiah went to consult a woman named Huldah, a prophet who lived in the newer part of Jerusalem. (Her husband Shallum, the son of Tikvah and grandson of Harhas, was in charge of the temple robes.) They described to her what had happened, 
I belong to my lover, and he desires me. 
Keep yourselves holy, because I am the LORD your God. 
The chief priests picked up the coins and said, “This is blood money, and it is against our Law to put it in the temple treasury.” 
Altogether there were eight tables on which the animals to be sacrificed were killed: four inside the room and four out in the courtyard. 
Pray also that God will rescue us from wicked and evil people; for not everyone believes the message. 
The LORD had said to Moses, “The king will continue to refuse to listen to you, in order that I may do more of my miracles in Egypt.” 
They stand a long way off, because they are afraid of sharing in her suffering. They say, “How terrible! How awful! This great and mighty city Babylon! In just one hour you have been punished!” 
and that is why I was sent as an apostle and teacher of the Gentiles, to proclaim the message of faith and truth. I am not lying; I am telling the truth! 
The territory extended from Mount Halak in the south near Edom, as far as Baalgad in the north, in the valley of Lebanon south of Mount Hermon. Joshua was at war with the kings of this territory for a long time, but he captured them all and put them to death. 
Then the third angel blew his trumpet. A large star, burning like a torch, dropped from the sky and fell on a third of the rivers and on the springs of water. 
But he did tell me that I would become pregnant and have a son. He told me not to drink any wine or beer, or eat any forbidden food, because the boy is to be dedicated to God as a Nazirite as long as he lives.” 
Then Jesus said to his disciples, “If anyone wants to come with me, he must forget self, carry his cross, and follow me.  
Be merciful to me, O God, : because I am under attack; : my enemies persecute me all the time. 
The five Philistine kings watched them do this and then went back to Ekron that same day. 
And to Solomon he said, “My son, I charge you to acknowledge your father's God and to serve him with an undivided heart and a willing mind. He knows all our thoughts and desires. If you go to him, he will accept you; but if you turn away from him, he will abandon you for ever. 
And if anyone says anything, tell him, ‘The Master  needs them’; and then he will let them go at once.” 
to give Aaron and his sons the following regulations for burnt offerings. A burnt offering is to be left on the altar all night long, and the fire is to be kept burning. 
If he is not set free in any of these ways, he and his children must be set free in the next Year of Restoration. 
This, then, is how the carts were made; they were all alike, having the same size and shape. 
If you let a fool deliver a message, you might as well cut off your own feet; you are asking for trouble. 
But Ehud himself turned back at the carved stones near Gilgal, went back to Eglon, and said, “Your Majesty, I have a secret message for you.” : So the king ordered his servants, “Leave us alone!” And they all went out. 
If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and there is no truth in us. 
The houses will be full of good things which you did not put in them, and there will be wells that you did not dig, and vineyards and olive orchards that you did not plant. When the LORD brings you into this land and you have all you want to eat, 
Hamath, which borders on Hadrach, also belongs to him, and so do the cities of Tyre and Sidon, with all their skill. 
Jeremiah, don't pray to me or plead with me on behalf of these people. When they are in trouble and call to me for help, I will not listen to them.” 
they are wrong about what is right, because I am going to the Father and you will not see me any more;  
(This Mary was the one who poured the perfume on the Lord's feet and wiped them with her hair; it was her brother Lazarus who was ill.) 
Instead, put the Levites in charge of the Tent of my presence and all its equipment. They shall carry it and its equipment, serve in it, and set up their camp round it. 
All those people speak about how you received us when we visited you, and how you turned away from idols to God, to serve the true and living God 
So they started out in a boat by themselves for a lonely place. 
every time I pray. I ask that God in his good will may at last make it possible for me to visit you now. 
They started discussing among themselves, “He says this because we didn't bring any bread.” 
Once Jesus was in a town where there was a man who was suffering from a dreaded skin disease. When he saw Jesus, he threw himself down and begged him, “Sir, if you want to, you can make me clean!” 
You are to kill your master the king, that son of Ahab, so that I may punish Jezebel for murdering my prophets and my other servants. 
Then I will thank you in the assembly of your people; : I will praise you before them all. 
Some of you were like that. But you have been purified from sin; you have been dedicated to God; you have been put right with God by the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. 
How beautiful the tree was — : So tall, with such long branches. : Its roots reached down to the deep-flowing streams. 
For the entrance to the main room a rectangular door-frame of olive wood was made. 
“In every case of a dispute about property, whether it involves cattle, donkeys, sheep, clothing, or any other lost object, the two people claiming the property shall be taken to the place of worship. The one whom God declares to be guilty shall pay double to the other one. 
Death is waiting for anyone who wanders away from good sense. 
There is one way of speaking that is like death itself — may no Israelite ever be guilty of it! Devout people do not wallow in such sin, and they will keep away from such behaviour. 
The people of Judah have broken their promise to God and done a horrible thing in Jerusalem and all over the country. They have defiled the Temple which the LORD loves. Men have married women who worship foreign gods. 
If it please Your Majesty, issue a decree that they are to be put to death. If you do, I guarantee that I will be able to put more than 340 tonnes of silver into the royal treasury for the administration of the empire.” 
When the Pharisees heard this, they replied, “He drives out demons only because their ruler Beelzebul gives him power to do so.” 
We write to you only what you can read and understand. But even though you now understand us only in part, I hope that you will come to understand us completely, so that in the Day of our Lord Jesus you can be as proud of us as we shall be of you. 
Watch out for such people and their evil plans; they will ruin you permanently. 
Then, if the mildew reappears, it is spreading again, and the owner shall burn the object. 
And now in Babylonia the same thing has happened: you are captives, and nothing was paid for you. Those who rule over you boast and brag and constantly show contempt for me. 
A curse will be on all who make threats against you, : on all who destroy you and tear down your walls, : on all who demolish your towers and burn your homes. : But all who honour you will be blessed for ever. 
One day when many tax collectors and other outcasts came to listen to Jesus, 
The servant answered, “I have a small silver coin. I can give him that, and then he will tell us where we can find them.” 
Jonadab said to David, “Those are your sons coming, just as I said they would.” 
Whoever presents a sheep or a goat as a burnt offering to the LORD is to bring with each animal a kilogramme of flour mixed with one litre of olive oil as a grain offering, together with one litre of wine. 
In the days of Shamgar son of Anath, : in the days of Jael, : caravans no longer went through the land, : and travellers used the side roads. 
On the seventh day some of the people went out to gather food, but they did not find any. 
You punish our sins by your rebukes, : and like a moth you destroy what we love. : Indeed we are no more than a puff of wind! 
He committed the most shameful sins by worshipping idols, as the Amorites had done, whom the LORD had driven out of the land as the people of Israel advanced.) 
These are the ones who rejected God : and believed that he could do nothing to them. 
But God says to the wicked, : “Why should you recite my commandments? : Why should you talk about my covenant? 
Even the priests who come near me must purify themselves, or I will punish them.” 
It is a happy person who is concerned with Wisdom and who uses good sense. 
“And you, Daniel, be faithful to the end. Then you will die, but you will rise to receive your reward at the end of time.”
They were to be a test for Israel, to find out whether or not the Israelites would obey the commands that the LORD had given their ancestors through Moses. 
Everyone must be on guard against his friend, : and no one can trust his brother; : for every brother is as deceitful as Jacob, : and everyone slanders his friends. 
Then he said to the man with the paralysed hand, “Stretch out your hand.” : He stretched it out, and it became well again, just like the other one. 
Job, can't people like you ever be quiet? : If you stopped to listen, we could talk to you. 
And I heard a voice from heaven that sounded like a roaring waterfall, like a loud peal of thunder. It sounded like the music made by musicians playing their harps. 
She would go there in the evening, and the next morning she would be taken to another harem and put in the care of Shaashgaz, the eunuch in charge of the king's concubines. She would not go to the king again unless he liked her enough to ask for her by name. 
Now, to deal with the matters you wrote about. : A man does well not to marry.  
He opened for us a new way, a living way, through the curtain — that is, through his own body. 
If he has done you any wrong or owes you anything, charge it to my account. 
With all my heart I try to serve you; : keep me from disobeying your commandments. 
“Every plant which my Father in heaven did not plant will be pulled up,” answered Jesus. 
Hobab answered, “No, I am going back to my native land.” 
The people of the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh answered the heads of the families of the western tribes
However, the pagan places of worship were not destroyed, and the people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense there. 
Hagar, who stands for Mount Sinai in Arabia, is a figure of the present city of Jerusalem, in slavery with all its people. 
But the seventh year is to be a year of complete rest for the land, a year dedicated to the LORD. Do not sow your fields or prune your vineyards. 
And he who sent me is with me; he has not left me alone, because I always do what pleases him.” 
Shameless nation, come to your senses 
You must remove the old yeast of sin so that you will be entirely pure. Then you will be like a new batch of dough without any yeast, as indeed I know you actually are. For our Passover Festival is ready, now that Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed. 
This happened during the third year of the reign of King Asa of Judah. And so Baasha succeeded Nadab as king of Israel. 
Then the one who had been living for ever came and pronounced judgement in favour of the people of the Supreme God. The time had arrived for God's people to receive royal power. 
Under his command we will cross into the land of Canaan and go into battle, so that we can retain our property here east of the Jordan.” 
“You people who live in Moab, leave your towns! Go and live on the cliffs! Be like the dove that makes its nest in the sides of a ravine. 
Yet there is something that keeps this from happening now, and you know what it is. At the proper time, then, the Wicked One will appear. 
“In addition, any other special contributions that the Israelites present to me shall be yours. I am giving them to you, your sons, and your daughters for all time to come. Every member of your family who is ritually clean may eat them. 
At once he began killing all the members of Jeroboam's family. In accordance with what the LORD had said through his servant, the prophet Ahijah from Shiloh, all Jeroboam's family were killed; not one survived. 
And so they left, and on their way they saw the same star they had seen in the east. When they saw it, how happy they were, what joy was theirs! It went ahead of them until it stopped over the place where the child was. 
When Barak came looking for Sisera, Jael went out to meet him and said to him, “Come here! I'll show you the man you're looking for.” So he went in with her, and there was Sisera on the ground, dead, with the tent peg through his head. 
She was the whore for all the Assyrian officers, and her lust led her to defile herself by worshipping Assyrian idols. 
Chepharammoni, Ophni, and Geba: twelve cities, along with the towns round them. 
If we suffer, it is for your help and salvation; if we are helped, then you too are helped and given the strength to endure with patience the same sufferings that we also endure. 
Don't be jealous of what sinners achieve; just stick to your own work, and trust the Lord. It is very easy for the Lord to make a poor person suddenly rich. 
At last he came to his senses and said, ‘All my father's hired workers have more than they can eat, and here I am about to starve!  
“The brick buildings have fallen down, but we will replace them with stone buildings. The beams of sycomore wood have been cut down, but we will replace them with the finest cedar.” 
But I do not have the right to choose who will sit at my right and my left. It is God who will give these places to those for whom he has prepared them.” 
the LORD called Samuel. He answered, “Yes, sir!” 
When he was made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation for all those who obey him, 
The thirteenth day of Adar came, the day on which the royal proclamation was to take effect, the day when the enemies of the Jews were hoping to get them in their power. But instead, the Jews triumphed over them. 
Samuel was sleeping in the sanctuary, where the sacred Covenant Box was. Before dawn, while the lamp was still burning, 
If you work in a stone quarry, you get hurt by stones. If you split wood, you get hurt doing it. 
Some people have turned away from these and have lost their way in foolish discussions. 
Then the Spirit of the LORD came upon Jephthah. He went through Gilead and Manasseh and returned to Mizpah in Gilead and went on to Ammon. 
Nations have heard of your shame; : everyone has heard you cry. : One soldier trips over another, : and both of them fall to the ground. 
Holon, Debir, 
Esau married Canaanite women: Adah, the daughter of Elon the Hittite; Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah son of Zibeon the Hivite; 
He went to her, took her by the hand, and helped her up. The fever left her, and she began to wait on them. 
With my own hand I write this: Greetings from Paul. Do not forget my chains! : May God's grace be with you.
When Jesus heard it, he said, “The final result of this illness will not be the death of Lazarus; this has happened in order to bring glory to God, and it will be the means by which the Son of God will receive glory.” 
“I will give the command and shake the people of Israel like corn in a sieve. I will shake them among the nations to remove all who are worthless. 
And yet you ask, “What does God know? : He is hidden by clouds — how can he judge us?” 
He loves our people and he himself built a synagogue for us.” 
Zerahiah, Meraioth, 
By chance, however, a Syrian soldier shot an arrow which struck King Ahab between the joints of his armour. “I'm wounded!” he cried out to his chariot driver. “Turn round and pull out of the battle!” 
The enemy said, ‘I will pursue them and catch them; : I will divide their wealth and take all I want; : I will draw my sword and take all they have.’ 
Go along with them and join them in the ceremony of purification and pay their expenses; then they will be able to shave their heads. In this way everyone will know that there is no truth in any of the things that they have been told about you, but that you yourself live in accordance with the Law of Moses. 
Even after my skin is eaten by disease, : while still in this body I will see God. 
I have so much to tell you, but I would rather not do it with paper and ink; instead, I hope to visit you and talk with you personally, so that we shall be completely happy. 
No longer will you be called “Forsaken”, : Or your land be called “The Deserted Wife”. : Your new name will be “God is Pleased with Her”. : Your land will be called “Happily Married”, : Because the LORD is pleased with you : And will be like a husband to your land. 
Has he stopped loving us? : Does his promise no longer stand? 
The one who sows and the one who waters really do not matter. It is God who matters, because he makes the plant grow. 
All kings will bow down before him; : all nations will serve him. 
The best thing anyone can do is to eat and drink and enjoy what he has earned. And yet, I realized that even this comes from God. 
Joab, whose mother was Zeruiah, began to take a census, but he did not complete it. God punished Israel because of this census, so the final figures were never recorded in King David's official records. 
If in that land they truly and sincerely repent and pray to you as they face towards this land which you gave to our ancestors, this city which you have chosen, and this Temple which I have built for you, 
If anyone hears my message and does not obey it, I will not judge him. I came, not to judge the world, but to save it.  
Then the LORD told me to break the jar in front of those who had gone with me 
Jesus answered, “Let the dead bury their own dead. You go and proclaim the Kingdom of God.” 
The LORD said, “People are saying that this place is like a desert, that it has no people or animals living in it. And they are right; the towns of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem are empty; no people or animals live there. But in these places you will hear again 
fine linen; blue, purple, and red wool; cloth made of goats' hair; 
Yet hope returns when I remember this one thing
You will have to live with the consequences of everything you say. 
At once the Spirit took control of me. There in heaven was a throne with someone sitting on it. 
Instead, your beauty should consist of your true inner self, the ageless beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is of the greatest value in God's sight. 
Those who make fun of their father or despise their mother in her old age ought to be eaten by vultures or have their eyes picked out by wild ravens. 
Israel will be defenceless, and Damascus will lose its independence. Those Syrians who survive will be in disgrace like the people of Israel. I, the LORD Almighty, have spoken.” 
My child, treat yourself as well as you can, and bring worthy offerings to the Lord. 
Salmon, Boaz, 
save others by snatching them out of the fire; and to others show mercy mixed with fear, but hate their very clothes, stained by their sinful lusts. 
But you judged your own people very strictly, even though you had made covenants with their ancestors and had solemnly promised to give them good things. 
They leave us, but it is not a disaster. In fact, the righteous are at peace. 
I thought long and hard about all this and saw that God controls the actions of wise and righteous people, even their love and their hate. No one knows anything about what lies ahead. 
(Jesus said this because some people were saying, “He has an evil spirit in him.”) 
I was fiercely attacked and was being defeated, : but the LORD helped me. 
O LORD, you protect me and save me; : your help has made me great. 
Egypt will become an empty waste. Then you will know that I am the LORD. : “Because you said that the Nile is yours and you made it, 
“Whether a short time or a long time,” Paul answered, “my prayer to God is that you and all the rest of you who are listening to me today might become what I am — except, of course, for these chains!” 
She quickly emptied her jar into the animals' drinking-trough and ran to the well to get more water, until she had watered all his camels. 
For some time John the Baptist had told Herod, “It isn't right for you to be married to Herodias!” 
We urge you, our brothers and sisters, to warn the idle, encourage the timid, help the weak, be patient with everyone. 
I will avenge those who were killed; : I will not spare the guilty. : But Judah and Jerusalem will be inhabited for ever, : and I, the LORD, will live on Mount Zion.”
Aaron and all the people looked at Moses and saw that his face was shining, and they were afraid to go near him. 
“The wood of the pine, the juniper, and the cypress, : The finest wood from the forests of Lebanon, : Will be brought to rebuild you, Jerusalem, : To make my Temple beautiful, : To make my city glorious. 
Gideon replied, “If you are pleased with me, give me some proof that you are really the LORD. 
It is a disgrace to be greedy; poor people are better off than liars. 
The next day the LORD did as he had said, and all the animals of the Egyptians died, but not one of the animals of the Israelites died. 
This special contribution will be considered as the equivalent of the offering which the farmer makes of new corn and new wine. 
He rebuilt the pagan places of worship that his father Hezekiah had destroyed. He built altars for the worship of Baal, made images of the goddess Asherah, and worshipped the stars. 
Open your doors, Lebanon, : so that fire can burn down your cedar trees! 
So the Moabite and Midianite leaders took with them the payment for the curse, went to Balaam, and gave him Balak's message. 
And now, why wait any longer? Get up and be baptized and have your sins washed away by praying to him.’ 
On the eighth day Solomon sent the people home. They all praised him and went home happy because of all the blessings that the LORD had given his servant David and his people Israel.
The LORD does not easily become angry, : but he is powerful : and never lets the guilty go unpunished. : Where the LORD walks, storms arise; : the clouds are the dust raised by his feet! 
About the tribe of Benjamin he said: : “This is the tribe the LORD loves and protects; : He guards them all the day long, : And he dwells in their midst.” 
Bowmen will not stand their ground, fast runners will not get away, and men on horses will not escape with their lives. 
so they invited all the Israelites, from Dan in the north to Beersheba in the south, to come together in Jerusalem and celebrate the Passover according to the Law, in larger numbers than ever before. 
Like an apple tree among the trees of the forest, : so is my dearest compared with other men. : I love to sit in its shadow, : and its fruit is sweet to my taste. 
Mejarkon, and Rakkon, as well as the territory round Joppa. 
But remember, O LORD, that your enemies laugh at you, : that they are godless and despise you. 
At that very time Jesus cured many people of their sicknesses, diseases, and evil spirits, and gave sight to many blind people. 
And so they rejected him. : Jesus said to them, “A prophet is respected everywhere except in his home town and by his own family.”  
whether they crawl, or walk on four legs, or have many legs. 
But God told the prophet Shemaiah 
“Are you ready to pass sentence on them, mortal man? Then do so. Remind them of the disgusting things their ancestors did. 
“You are right,” Jesus replied; “do this and you will live.” 
No one was able to give Jesus any answer, and from that day on no one dared to ask him any more questions.
There was water to make it grow, : And underground rivers to feed it. : They watered the place where the tree was growing : And sent streams to all the trees of the forest. 
What I saw and heard in the vision has filled me with terror and pain, pain like that of a woman in labour. 
Abraham believed and was blessed; so all who believe are blessed as he was. 
These three sons of Noah were the ancestors of all the people on earth. 
Then the Lamb broke open the second seal; and I heard the second living creature say, “Come!” 
All the people of Israel who wanted to brought their offering to the LORD for the work which he had commanded Moses to do. 
This is the list of David's famous soldiers. Together with the rest of the people of Israel, they helped him to become king, as the LORD had promised, and they kept his kingdom strong. 
LORD Almighty, how happy are those who trust in you!
“I tell you, get up, pick up your mat, and go home!” 
The time is coming, and is already here, when all of you will be scattered, each of you to your own home, and I will be left all alone. But I am not really alone, because the Father is with me.  
While I was looking, thrones were put in place. One who had been living for ever sat down on one of the thrones. His clothes were white as snow, and his hair was like pure wool. His throne, mounted on fiery wheels, was blazing with fire, 
Jerusalem alone is left, a city under siege — as defenceless as a guard's hut in a vineyard or a shed in a cucumber field. 
That is why the Lord is so patient with us, why he is so free with his mercy. 
but for your sake I am glad that I was not with him, so that you will believe. Let us go to him.” 
Others wanted to trap Jesus, so they asked him to perform a miracle to show that God approved of him. 
“Then the LORD said to all of us, ‘Your children, who are still too young to know right from wrong, will enter the land — the children you said would be seized by your enemies. I will give the land to them, and they will occupy it. 
“Who are you?” he asked. : “It's Ruth, sir,” she answered. “Because you are a close relative, you are responsible for taking care of me. So please marry me.” 
As soon as Judas arrived, he went up to Jesus and said, “Teacher!” and kissed him. 
People curse someone who hoards grain, waiting for a higher price, but they praise the one who puts it up for sale. 
But the day will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast. 
When the Israelites had gathered at Mizpah, they had made a solemn promise to the LORD: “None of us will allow a Benjaminite to marry a daughter of ours.” 
I looked up and saw a vision of a fiery human form. From the waist down his body looked like fire, and from the waist up he was shining like polished bronze. 
because the LORD will take away the strength of the wicked, : but protect those who are good. 
“The servant who knows what his master wants him to do, but does not get himself ready and do it, will be punished with a heavy whipping.  
Wicked people do not really gain anything, but if you do what is right, you are certain to be rewarded. 
So Jesus came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. Pilate said to them, “Look! Here is the man!” 
Gedaliah said to them, “I give you my word that there is no need for you to be afraid to surrender to the Babylonians. Settle down in this land, serve the king of Babylonia, and all will go well with you. 
I had to feed you with milk, not solid food, because you were not ready for it. And even now you are not ready for it, 
Then Samuel turned to leave, but Saul caught hold of his cloak, and it tore. 
Bethlehem — 123 
Do not surrender your dignity to a woman. 
Shaul's son was Shallum, his grandson was Mibsam, and his great-grandson was Mishma. 
“Watch out!” the LORD says, “I am sending snakes among you, poisonous snakes that cannot be charmed, and they will bite you.” 
The king said, “Ahimelech, you and all your relatives must die.” 
and he will be the king of the descendants of Jacob for ever; his kingdom will never end!” 
I am your servant, LORD; : I serve you, just as my mother did. : You have saved me from death. 
Then another angel came out from the temple and cried out in a loud voice to the one who was sitting on the cloud, “Use your sickle and reap the harvest, because the time has come; the earth is ripe for the harvest!” 
Then they returned to Elisha, who had waited at Jericho, and he said to them, “Didn't I tell you not to go?” 
Put away evil and wrong from your home. 
If he was unmarried when he became your slave, he is not to take a wife with him when he leaves; but if he was married when he became your slave, he may take his wife with him. 
Meanwhile, in Egypt, the Midianites had sold Joseph to Potiphar, one of the king's officers, who was the captain of the palace guard.
and called out in a loud voice that sounded like the roar of lions. After he had called out, the seven thunders answered with a roar. 
They captured from the enemy 50,000 camels, 250,000 sheep, and 2,000 donkeys, and took 100,000 prisoners of war. 
The scripture says: : “I will destroy the wisdom of the wise : and set aside the understanding of the scholars.” 
Be generous, and you will be prosperous. Help others, and you will be helped. 
They made themselves impure by their actions : and were unfaithful to God. 
I will never say that you men are right; : I will insist on my innocence to my dying day. 
The Lord is at your right side; : when he becomes angry, he will defeat kings. 
“I am the first and the last,” says the Lord God Almighty, who is, who was, and who is to come. 
I assure you that there are some here who will not die until they have seen the Son of Man come as King.”
What happened, Sea, to make you run away? : And you, O Jordan, why did you stop flowing? 
The LORD said to Moses, “Hold out your hand over the sea, and the water will come back over the Egyptians and their chariots and drivers.” 
He calmed the raging storm, : and the waves became quiet. 
Jesus said to them, “All of you will run away and leave me, for the scripture says, ‘God will kill the shepherd, and the sheep will all be scattered.’  
They were the ancestors of twelve tribes, and their names were given to their villages and camping places. 
No one here will harm you; everyone will treat you well, like all other servants of my master, Nebuchadnezzar.” 
After leaving that place, they camped at the ruins of Abarim in the wilderness east of Moabite territory. 
When Barnabas and Paul heard what they were about to do, they tore their clothes and ran into the middle of the crowd, shouting, 
They must proclaim his greatness in the assembly of the people : and praise him before the council of the leaders. 
“He will come and kill those men, and hand the vineyard over to other tenants.” : When the people heard this, they said, “Surely not!” 
But when they reached the camp, the Israelites attacked them and drove them back. The Israelites kept up the pursuit, slaughtering the Moabites 
So he sent Timothy and Erastus, two of his helpers, to Macedonia, while he spent more time in the province of Asia. 
Then pray, ‘LORD, you have said that you would destroy this place, so that there would be no living creatures in it, neither people nor animals, and it would be like a desert for ever.’ 
to register the Levites by clans and families, enrolling every male a month old or older, 
(This was before John had been put in prison.) 
I could see something standing there; : I stared, but couldn't tell what it was. : Then I heard a voice out of the silence
The Almighty God, the LORD, speaks; : he calls to the whole earth from east to west. 
Then Paul was called in, and Tertullus began to make his accusation, as follows: : “Your Excellency! Your wise leadership has brought us a long period of peace, and many necessary reforms are being made for the good of our country. 
“The LORD your God will destroy the nations as you invade their land, and you will occupy it and settle there. 
The girl hurried back at once to the king and demanded, “I want you to give me here and now the head of John the Baptist on a dish!” 
they saw him, but somehow did not recognize him. 
That was not what you learnt about Christ! 
By our purity, knowledge, patience, and kindness we have shown ourselves to be God's servants — by the Holy Spirit, by our true love, 
When I left here, I had plenty, but the LORD has brought me back without a thing. Why call me Naomi when the LORD Almighty has condemned me and sent me trouble?” 
Greetings to each one of God's people who belong to Christ Jesus. The brothers and sisters here with me send you their greetings. 
The old prophet picked up the body, put it on the donkey, and brought it back to Bethel to mourn over it and bury it. 
the third by white horses, and the fourth by dappled horses. 
The living Father sent me, and because of him I live also. In the same way whoever eats me will live because of me.  
If you will only obey me, you will eat the good things the land produces. 
“ ‘God's curse on anyone who deprives foreigners, orphans, and widows of their rights.’ : “And all the people will answer, ‘Amen!’ 
so you let their enemies conquer and rule them. : In their trouble they called to you for help, : and you answered them from heaven. : In your great mercy you sent them leaders : who rescued them from their foes. 
“Edom is there with her kings and rulers. They were powerful soldiers, but now they lie in the world of the dead with the uncircumcised who were killed in battle. 
The priest shall examine the sore, and if the hairs in it have turned white and the sore appears to be deeper than the surrounding skin, it is a dreaded skin disease, and the priest shall pronounce the person unclean. 
Harness your horses and mount them! : Fall in line and put on your helmets! : Sharpen your spears! : Put on your armour!’ 
You have six days in which to do your work, but the seventh day is a solemn day of rest dedicated to me. Whoever does any work on that day is to be put to death. 
The eastern border was the Dead Sea, all the way up to the inlet where the Jordan empties into it. : The northern border began there, 
Those who think they are standing firm had better be careful that they do not fall. 
and I told the exiles everything that the LORD had shown me.
We want to remind you, brothers and sisters, of the trouble we had in the province of Asia. The burdens laid upon us were so great and so heavy that we gave up all hope of staying alive. 
He ties his young donkey to a grapevine, : To the very best of the vines. : He washes his clothes in blood-red wine. 
Then they thought, “The yearly festival of the LORD at Shiloh is coming soon.” (Shiloh is north of Bethel, south of Lebonah, and east of the road between Bethel and Shechem.) 
So Ruth went to the threshing place and did just what her mother-in-law had told her. 
Wolves and sheep will live together in peace, : and leopards will lie down with young goats. : Calves and lion cubs will feed together, : and little children will take care of them. 
On the first day of the twelfth month of the twelfth year of our exile, the LORD spoke to me. 
which numbered 64,400 men. 
What, then? Shall we sin, because we are not under law but under God's grace? By no means! 
They stopped worshipping the LORD, the God of their ancestors, the God who had brought them out of Egypt, and they began to worship other gods, the gods of the peoples round them. They bowed down to them and made the LORD angry. 
and anyone who kills an animal belonging to someone else must replace it. The principle is a life for a life. 
But because of your great love : I can come into your house; : I can worship in your holy Temple : and bow down to you in reverence. 
“We did what the LORD our God commanded us. We left Mount Sinai and went through that vast and fearful desert on the way to the hill country of the Amorites. When we reached Kadesh Barnea, 
Jacob set up a memorial stone there, and it still marks Rachel's grave to this day. 
So we are always full of courage. We know that as long as we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord's home. 
I will praise the name of the LORD, : and his people will tell of his greatness. 
Shem's sons — Elam, Asshur, Arpachshad, Lud, and Aram — were the ancestors of the peoples who bear their names. 
Joel was the founder of the leading clan, and Shapham of the second most important clan. Janai and Shaphat were founders of other clans in Bashan. 
and just as my Father has given me the right to rule, so I will give you the same right.  
Miriam was shut out of the camp for seven days, and the people did not move on until she was brought back in. 
and arranged them in battle formation. 
After that he must have all the interior walls scraped and the plaster dumped in an unclean place outside the city. 
Abraham answered, “God himself will provide one.” And the two of them walked on together. 
“Take a guard,” Pilate told them; “go and make the tomb as secure as you can.” 
Because of you the LORD your God was angry with me and solemnly declared that I would not cross the River Jordan to enter the fertile land which he is giving you. 
Who do you think will hear all your words? : Who inspired you to speak like this? 
As they came down the mountain, Jesus ordered them, “Don't tell anyone what you have seen, until the Son of Man has risen from death.” 
It's what is in your heart that makes the expression on your face happy or sad. 
Watch out, for there will be those who will arrest you and take you to court, and they will whip you in the synagogues.  
Raise your hands in prayer in the Temple, : and praise the LORD! 
Remember how Achan son of Zerah refused to obey the command about the things condemned to destruction; the whole community of Israel was punished for that. Achan was not the only one who died because of his sin.” 
I will give you thanks as long as I live; : I will raise my hands to you in prayer. 
But he who joins himself to the Lord becomes spiritually one with him. 
in addition to the taxes paid by merchants, the profits from trade, and tribute paid by the Arabian kings and the governors of the Israelite districts. 
You acted against the Lord of heaven and brought in the cups and bowls taken from his Temple. You, your noblemen, your wives, and your concubines drank wine out of them and praised gods made of gold, silver, bronze, iron, wood, and stone — gods that cannot see or hear and that do not know anything. But you did not honour the God who determines whether you live or die and who controls everything you do. 
Joel son of Zichri was their leader, and Judah son of Hassenuah was the second senior official in the city.
The poor will eat as much as they want; : those who come to the LORD will praise him. : May they prosper for ever! 
She protected him from his enemies who were waiting for a chance to attack him. She gave him victory in a hard fight, so that he might realize that nothing can make a person stronger than serving God. 
If you make gifts to rich people or oppress the poor to get rich, you will become poor yourself. 
and do what the LORD your God orders you to do. Obey all his laws and commands, as written in the Law of Moses, so that wherever you go you may prosper in everything you do. 
The maker of idols hasn't the wit or the sense to say, “Some of the wood I burnt up. I baked some bread on the embers and I roasted meat and ate it. And the rest of the wood I made into an idol. Here I am bowing down to a block of wood!” 
It so happened that a priest was going down that road; but when he saw the man, he walked on by, on the other side.  
The chief priests and the teachers of the Law heard of this, so they began looking for some way to kill Jesus. They were afraid of him, because the whole crowd was amazed at his teaching. 
“I have taught you all the laws, as the LORD my God told me to do. Obey them in the land that you are about to invade and occupy. 
Now this is what the Sovereign LORD is saying: “Because you forgot me and turned your back on me, you will suffer for your lust and your prostitution.” 
May all who made them and who trust in them : become like the idols they have made! 
Then there are those wicked people who go about looking very solemn and mournful, but who are only trying to deceive you. 
When their rulers are thrown down from rocky cliffs, : the people will admit that my words were true. 
For seven days all the people of Israel who were present celebrated the Passover and the Festival of Unleavened Bread. 
But he said to me, “Don't do it! I am a servant together with you and with your brothers the prophets and with all those who obey the words in this book. Worship God!” 
He makes their leaders foolish : and lets them wander confused and lost; 
They got up at once and went back to Jerusalem, where they found the eleven disciples gathered together with the others 
“To the angel of the church in Thyatira write: :   “This is the message from the Son of God, whose eyes blaze like fire, whose feet shine like polished brass.  
“LORD God of Israel, why has this happened? Why is the tribe of Benjamin about to disappear from Israel?” 
Do not think that I will bring my people to the point of birth and not let them be born.” The LORD has spoken. 
The Babylonian soldiers have stopped fighting and remain in their forts. They have lost their courage and have become like women. The city gates are broken down, and the houses are on fire. 
Joshua and the people of Israel defeated all the kings in the territory west of the Jordan, from Baalgad in the valley of Lebanon to Mount Halak in the south near Edom. Joshua divided this land among the tribes and gave it to them as a permanent possession. 
Belteshazzar, chief of the fortune tellers, I know that the spirit of the holy gods is in you, and that you understand all mysteries. This is my dream. Tell me what it means. 
There are four things that scare me; vicious rumours spread around town, a gathering mob, false accusations — these are all worse than death. 
Nations round the world held you in admiration for your songs, proverbs, parables, and witty sayings. 
The heavens proclaim that God is righteous, : that he himself is judge. 
My child, if you are going to serve the Lord, be prepared for times when you will be put to the test. 
After the circumcision was completed, the whole nation stayed in the camp until the wounds had healed. 
Joshua said to all the people, “This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, has to say: ‘Long ago your ancestors lived on the other side of the River Euphrates and worshipped other gods. One of those ancestors was Terah, the father of Abraham and Nahor. 
The woman said to Elisha, “I swear by my loyalty to the living LORD and to you that I will not leave you!” So the two of them started back together. 
So whenever they were around, David pretended to be insane and acted like a madman when they tried to restrain him; he would scribble on the city gates and dribble down his beard. 
The old man said, “You are welcome in my home! I'll take care of you; you don't have to spend the night in the square.” 
He watches every step we take. 
Don't think that his mercy is so great that he will forgive your sins no matter how many they are. He does show mercy, but he also shows his furious anger with sinners. 
We are not trying to dictate to you what you must believe; we know that you stand firm in the faith. Instead, we are working with you for your own happiness.
Go out from Babylon, go free! : Shout the news gladly; make it known everywhere: : “The LORD has saved his servant Israel!” 
Then there were the judges, each of them famous in their own right, who never fell into idolatry and never abandoned the Lord. 
So when David returned to camp after killing Goliath, Abner took him to Saul. David was still carrying Goliath's head. 
Hebron had four sons: Korah, Tappuah, Rekem, and Shema. 
Hearing this, the king tore his clothes in dismay, and the people who were close to the wall could see that he was wearing sackcloth under his clothes. 
They will know that I am the LORD their God who brought them out of Egypt so that I could live among them. I am the LORD their God.
May the LORD remember the evil of his ancestors : and never forgive his mother's sins. 
When the shepherds saw him, they told them what the angel had said about the child. 
but later they changed their minds, took them back, and forced them to become slaves again. 
So I run straight towards the goal in order to win the prize, which is God's call through Christ Jesus to the life above. 
Terror, pits, and traps are waiting for the people of Moab. The LORD has spoken. 
The LORD listens to those in need : and does not forget his people in prison. 
So Moses raised his stick, and the LORD caused a wind from the east to blow on the land all that day and all that night. By morning it had brought the locusts. 
He took him to the field of Zophim on the top of Mount Pisgah. There also he built seven altars and offered a bull and a ram on each of them. 
Instead of using perfumes, they will stink; instead of fine belts, they will wear coarse ropes; instead of having beautiful hair, they will be bald; instead of fine clothes, they will be dressed in rags; their beauty will be turned to shame! 
Take all the birds and animals out with you, so that they may reproduce and spread over all the earth.” 
Then that same night the mystery was revealed to Daniel in a vision, and he praised the God of heaven
And Hananiah died in the seventh month of that same year.
Then King Solomon said to Abiathar the priest, “Go to your country home in Anathoth. You deserve to die, but I will not have you put to death now, for you were in charge of the LORD's Covenant Box while you were with my father David, and you shared in all his troubles.” 
they cried out to me for help, and I put darkness between them and the Egyptians. I made the sea come rolling over the Egyptians and drown them. You know what I did to Egypt. : “ ‘You lived in the desert a long time. 
These five Amorite kings, the kings of Jerusalem, Hebron, Jarmuth, Lachish, and Eglon, joined forces, surrounded Gibeon, and attacked it. 
It is impolite to have a greedy eye; remember that. Nothing in creation is greedier than the eye; that is why it sheds tears so often.  
It is to you and not to your brothers that I am giving Shechem, that fertile region which I took from the Amorites with my sword and my bow.”
John baptized with water, but in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.” 
Trust the Lord, and he will help you. Walk straight in his ways, and put your hope in him. 
The LORD told me to teach you all the laws that you are to obey in the land that you are about to invade and occupy. 
Arpachshad was the father of Shelah, who was the father of Eber. 
You have cut down the forests of Lebanon; now you will be cut down. You killed its animals; now animals will terrify you. This will happen because of the murders you have committed and because of your violence against the people of the world and its cities. 
Moses ordered you to circumcise your sons (although it was not Moses but your ancestors who started it), and so you circumcise a boy on the Sabbath.  
Now don't let Hezekiah deceive you or mislead you like that. Don't believe him! No god of any nation has ever been able to save his people from any Assyrian emperor. So certainly this god of yours can't save you!” 
It was faith that made Moses, when he had grown up, refuse to be called the son of the king's daughter. 
Then Simon came down from the altar, raised his hands over the whole assembly of Israel, and reverently pronounced the blessing from the Lord, 
I was amazed when I looked and saw that there was no one to help me. But my anger made me strong, and I won the victory myself. 
Er's conduct was evil, and it displeased the LORD, so the LORD killed him. 
If any of it is eaten on the third day, God will not accept the man's offering. The offering will not be counted to his credit but will be considered unclean, and whoever eats it will suffer the consequences. 
He has made false charges against her, saying that she was not a virgin when he married her. But here is the proof that my daughter was a virgin; look at the bloodstains on the wedding sheet!’ 
How long will you hesitate, faithless people? : I have created something new and different, : as different as a woman protecting a man.” 
Why is a clever person wise? Because he knows what to do. Why is a stupid person foolish? Because he only thinks he knows. 
Two women will be at a mill grinding meal: one will be taken away, the other will be left behind. 
He had got sunstroke while in the fields supervising the farm workers and later died in bed at home in Bethulia. He was buried in the family tomb in the field between Dothan and Balamon. 
and Jason has kept them in his house. They are all breaking the laws of the Emperor, saying that there is another king, whose name is Jesus.” 
He placed the turban on his head, and on the front of it he put the gold ornament, the sacred sign of dedication, just as the LORD had commanded him. 
They told us that we were never to intermarry with those people and never to help them prosper or succeed if we wanted to enjoy the land and pass it on to our descendants for ever. 
and King Zedekiah will not escape. He will be handed over to the king of Babylonia; he will see him face to face and will speak to him in person. 
These were the days on which the Jews had rid themselves of their enemies; this was a month that had been turned from a time of grief and despair into a time of joy and happiness. They were told to observe these days with feasts and parties, giving gifts of food to one another and to the poor. 
Then the stick of the man I have chosen will sprout. In this way I will put a stop to the constant complaining of these Israelites against you.” 
because he defends the poor : and saves them from those who condemn them to death.
and King Jehoiachin, along with his mother, his sons, his officers, and the palace officials, surrendered to the Babylonians. In the eighth year of Nebuchadnezzar's reign he took Jehoiachin prisoner 
Don't you know that I could call on my Father for help, and at once he would send me more than twelve armies of angels?  
God looks down from heaven at the human race : to see if there are any who are wise, : any who worship him. 
They seized her, took her to the palace, and there at the Horse Gate they killed her. 
who choose the reserved seats in the synagogues and the best places at feasts.  
I want you to put your trust in the LORD; that is why I am going to tell them to you now. 
“The LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, says to all those people whom he allowed Nebuchadnezzar to take away as prisoners from Jerusalem to Babylonia
During the siege Nebuchadnezzar himself came to Jerusalem, 
You made them for a little while lower than the angels; : you crowned them with glory and honour, 
I will put out all the lights of heaven and plunge your world into darkness. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken. 
They marched against the army of Benjamin a second time. 
He cut the ram in pieces, washed the internal organs and the hind legs with water, and burnt the head, the fat, and all the rest of the ram on the altar, just as the LORD had commanded. This burnt offering was a food offering, and the smell was pleasing to the LORD. 
He will keep you safe from all hidden dangers : and from all deadly diseases. 
“When you command your people to go into battle against their enemies and they pray to you, wherever they are, facing this city which you have chosen and this Temple which I have built for you, 
At Mount Sinai you came down from heaven; : you spoke to your people : and gave them good laws and sound teachings. 
I will destroy the hills and mountains : and dry up the grass and trees. : I will turn the river valleys into deserts : and dry up the pools of water. 
As Aaron spoke to the whole community, they turned towards the desert, and suddenly the dazzling light of the LORD appeared in a cloud. 
The LORD hates the ways of evil people, but loves those who do what is right. 
happy with the world : and pleased with the human race. 
Some Hebrews, who had been on the Philistine side and had gone with them to the camp, changed sides again and joined Saul and Jonathan. 
Do any of you think you are religious? If you do not control your tongue, your religion is worthless and you deceive yourselves. 
When the king of Ai saw Joshua's men, he acted quickly. He and all his men went out towards the Jordan Valley to fight the Israelites at the same place as before, not knowing that he was about to be attacked from the rear. 
Those who were guests in my house have forgotten me; : my servant women treat me like a stranger and a foreigner. 
So I will give their fields to new owners and their wives to other men. Everyone, great and small, tries to make money dishonestly. Even prophets and priests cheat the people. 
“But get up and go into the city, where you will be told what you must do.” 
Jesus left that place and went off to the territory near the cities of Tyre and Sidon. 
You are to kill the Passover lambs and goats. Now make yourselves ritually clean and prepare the sacrifices in order that your fellow-Israelites may follow the instructions which the LORD gave through Moses.” 
Our God is merciful and tender. : He will cause the bright dawn of salvation to rise on us 
So he made a whip from cords and drove all the animals out of the Temple, both the sheep and the cattle; he overturned the tables of the moneychangers and scattered their coins; 
They answered Joshua, “We will do everything you have told us and will go wherever you send us. 
Some time later Naomi said to Ruth, “I must find a husband for you, so that you will have a home of your own. 
I will use them to find out whether or not these Israelites will follow my ways, as their ancestors did.” 
All of you may proclaim God's message, one by one, so that everyone will learn and be encouraged. 
You foolish Galatians! Who put a spell on you? Before your very eyes you had a clear description of the death of Jesus Christ on the cross! 
But the wisdom from above is pure first of all; it is also peaceful, gentle, and friendly; it is full of compassion and produces a harvest of good deeds; it is free from prejudice and hypocrisy. 
The matter becomes even plainer; a different priest has appeared, who is like Melchizedek. 
He will demonstrate his learning in what he teaches, and his pride will be in the Lord's Law and covenant. 
The words of the LORD are true : and all his works are dependable. 
When Serug was thirty years old, he had a son, Nahor; 
This present disaster has come on you because you offered sacrifices to other gods and sinned against the LORD by not obeying all his commands.” 
They put on ragged clothes and worn-out sandals that had been mended. The bread they took with them was dry and mouldy. 
After spending some time there, he left and went through the region of Galatia and Phrygia, strengthening all the believers. 
When Jephthah went back home to Mizpah, there was his daughter coming out to meet him, dancing and playing the tambourine. She was his only child. 
They pressed harder and harder against him until they destroyed him.
You may say that it is none of your business, but God knows and judges your motives. He keeps watch on you; he knows. And he will reward you according to what you do. 
The news about this reached the church in Jerusalem, so they sent Barnabas to Antioch. 
He sent messengers throughout the territory of both parts of Manasseh to call them to follow him. He sent messengers to the tribes of Asher, Zebulun, and Naphtali, and they also came to join him. 
They gave an oral translation of God's Law and explained it so that the people could understand it. 
So when you get into trouble, I will laugh at you. I will mock you when terror strikes — 
He said, “Praise the LORD, the God of my master Abraham, who has faithfully kept his promise to my master. The LORD has led me straight to my master's relatives.” 
But if they walk during the night they stumble, because they have no light.”  
In all, 212 men were chosen as guards for the entrances and gates. They were registered according to the villages where they lived. It was King David and the prophet Samuel who had put their ancestors in these responsible positions. 
Much later the LORD gave Israel security from their enemies around them. By that time Joshua was very old, 
I have not much longer to live; my hope in the LORD is gone. 
Bezai — 323 
Living among you is as bad as living in Meshech : or among the people of Kedar. 
Samuel said, “Why do you call me when the LORD has abandoned you and become your enemy? 
They will be like angels and cannot die. They are the children of God, because they have risen from death.  
And so they were not able to believe, because Isaiah also said
Whenever the Covenant Box started out, Moses would say, “Arise, LORD; scatter your enemies and put to flight those who hate you!” 
where he stayed until Herod died. This was done to make what the Lord had said through the prophet come true, “I called my Son out of Egypt.” 
There were 200 men who at Absalom's invitation had gone from Jerusalem with him; they knew nothing of the plot and went in all good faith. 
“So do not be afraid of people. Whatever is now covered up will be uncovered, and every secret will be made known.  
“Now come close to me and hear what I say. : From the beginning I have spoken openly, : and have always made my words come true.” : (Now the Sovereign LORD has given me his power and sent me.) 
“When the people come to worship the LORD at any festival, those who enter by the north gate are to leave by the south gate after they have worshipped, and those who enter by the south gate are to leave by the north gate. No one may go out by the same way as he entered, but must leave by the opposite gate. 
May the punishment for it fall on Joab and all his family! In every generation may there be some man in his family who has gonorrhoea or a dreaded skin disease or is fit only to do a woman's work or is killed in battle or hasn't enough to eat!” 
Rehoboam wisely assigned responsibilities to his sons, and stationed them throughout Judah and Benjamin in the fortified cities. He provided generously for them and also secured many wives for them.
She said to King Solomon, “What I heard in my own country about you and your wisdom is true! 
Jesus stopped and called them. “What do you want me to do for you?” he asked them. 
I will destroy winter houses and summer houses. The houses decorated with ivory will fall in ruins; every large house will be destroyed.”
(The Covenant Box, however, was in Jerusalem, kept in a tent which King David had set up when he brought the Box from Kiriath Jearim.) 
God sends rain to water the earth; : he may send it to punish us, : or to show us his favour. 
On that day the LORD saved the people of Israel from the Egyptians, and the Israelites saw them lying dead on the seashore. 
I will make you as firm as a rock, as hard as a diamond; don't be afraid of those rebels.” 
But why should we risk death again? That terrible fire will destroy us. We are sure to die if we hear the LORD our God speak again. 
When Gallio was made the Roman governor of Achaia, Jews there got together, seized Paul, and took him into court. 
Your commandments are all trustworthy; : people persecute me with lies — help me! 
“If I am a man of God,” Elijah answered, “may fire come down from heaven and kill you and your men!” At once the fire of God came down and killed the officer and his men. 
The border then went in another direction, turning south from the western side of this mountain and going to Kiriath Baal (or Kiriath Jearim), which belongs to the tribe of Judah. This was the western border. 
You will have as many children : as there are blades of grass in a pasture. 
Happy is anyone who becomes wise — who gains understanding. 
“Then I will change the people of the nations, and they will pray to me alone and not to other gods. They will all obey me. 
At once the disease left the man, and he was clean. 
Then Aaron shall go into the Tent, take off the priestly garments that he had put on before entering the Most Holy Place, and leave them there. 
A group of prophets who lived there went to Elisha and asked him, “Do you know that the LORD is going to take your master away from you today?” : “Yes, I know,” Elisha answered. “But let's not talk about it.” 
And when the time comes for the appointed festivals in honour of the LORD, what will they do then? 
Such people are a heavier burden to bear than lead; and the only word that fits them is “fools.” 
He says to God: : “I will tell my people what you have done; : I will praise you in their meeting.” 
I will cover mountains and valleys with your rotting corpse. 
Hailstones and flashes of fire : came from the lightning before him : and broke through the dark clouds. 
Answer me, LORD, answer me, so that this people will know that you, the LORD, are God, and that you are bringing them back to yourself.” 
So I will send fire upon the city walls of Gaza and burn down its fortresses. 
We should bow in submission, for there may still be hope. 
We beg you, our brothers and sisters, to pay proper respect to those who work among you, who guide and instruct you in the Christian life. 
But with his wife's agreement he kept part of the money for himself and handed the rest over to the apostles. 
Listen, and I will teach you what the wise have said. Study their teachings, 
Leave your troubles with the LORD, : and he will defend you; : he never lets honest people be defeated. 
He sat there and listened to Paul's words. Paul saw that he believed and could be healed, so he looked straight at him 
The LORD spoke to me. 
I will punish you, your descendants, and your officials because of the sins all of you commit. Neither you nor the people of Jerusalem and of Judah have paid any attention to my warnings, and so I will bring on all of you the disaster that I have threatened.” 
Kiriath Jearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth — 743 
Some of those wise leaders will be killed, but as a result of this the people will be purified. This will continue until the end comes, the time that God has set. 
Then I heard a voice from the altar saying, “Lord God Almighty! True and just indeed are your judgements!” 
A double door made of olive wood was set in place at the entrance of the Most Holy Place; the top of the doorway was a pointed arch. 
But because he became proud, stubborn, and cruel, he was removed from his royal throne and lost his place of honour. 
Sihon, king of the Amorites, : Og, king of Bashan, : and all the kings in Canaan. 
Many of the people scolded him and told him to be quiet. But he shouted even more loudly, “Son of David, take pity on me!” 
Then the LORD said to him, “I am the LORD, who led you out of Ur in Babylonia, to give you this land as your own.” 
The LORD will bless the land in the sixth year so that it will produce enough food for two years. 
But you must never disobey them in any way, or worship and serve other gods. 
After that, he presented the people's offerings. He took the goat that was to be offered for the people's sins, killed it, and offered it, as he had done with his own sin offering. 
All those who make idols are worthless, and the gods they prize so highly are useless. Those who worship these gods are blind and ignorant — and they will be disgraced. 
Solomon has a vineyard : in a place called Baal Hamon. : There are farmers who rent it from him; : each one pays a thousand silver coins. 
Absalom and his men camped in the land of Gilead. 
You have used us to show them how holy you are; now use them to show us how great you are. 
A child is born to us! : A son is given to us! : And he will be our ruler. : He will be called, “Wonderful Counsellor”, : “Mighty God”, “Eternal Father”, : “Prince of Peace”. 
I will meet you there, and from above the lid between the two winged creatures I will give you all my laws for the people of Israel. 
And Joshua said, “Why have you brought such trouble on us? The LORD will now bring trouble on you!” All the people then stoned Achan to death; they also stoned and burnt his family and possessions. 
Then tell the people of Israel that anyone who curses God must suffer the consequences 
There are some Jews whom you put in charge of the province of Babylon — Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego — who are disobeying Your Majesty's orders. They do not worship your god or bow down to the statue you set up.” 
For your sake, my brothers and sisters, I have applied all this to Apollos and me, using the two of us as an example, so that you may learn what the saying means, “Observe the proper rules.” None of you should be proud of one person and despise another. 
In the third year of his reign he gave a banquet for all his officials and administrators. The armies of Persia and Media were present, as well as the governors and noblemen of the provinces. 
Jesus called the twelve disciples together and gave them power and authority to drive out all demons and to cure diseases. 
Look, he is coming on the clouds! Everyone will see him, including those who pierced him. All peoples on earth will mourn over him. So shall it be! 
In the end, those in favour of Omri won; Tibni died and Omri became king. 
“When Israel saw how sick she was and when Judah saw her own wounds, then Israel went to Assyria to ask the great emperor for help, but he could not cure them or heal their wounds. 
When you see their leaves beginning to appear, you know that summer is near.  
Zedekiah was taken to King Nebuchadnezzar, who was in the city of Riblah in the territory of Hamath, and there Nebuchadnezzar passed sentence on him. 
Nor did Herod find him guilty, for he sent him back to us. There is nothing this man has done to deserve death. 
and so he asked the LORD what to do. But the LORD did not answer him at all, either by dreams or by the use of Urim and Thummim or by prophets. 
But God said to Abraham, “Don't be worried about the boy and your slave Hagar. Do whatever Sarah tells you, because it is through Isaac that you will have the descendants I have promised. 
The LORD gave Moses the following regulations 
We were slaves, but you did not leave us in slavery. You made the emperors of Persia favour us and permit us to go on living and to rebuild your Temple, which was in ruins, and to find safety here in Judah and Jerusalem. 
: Shemaiah, the son of Hasshub and grandson of Azrikam. His ancestors included Hashabiah and Bunni. 
I know the heavy burdens that God has laid on us. 
and made me turn against them and send them into exile in the land of their enemies. At last, when your descendants are humbled and they have paid the penalty for their sin and rebellion, 
There was a door at the end of the passage leading to the Holy Place and one also at the end of the passage leading to the Most Holy Place. 
Then the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, also went in; he saw and believed. 
The water came over me and choked me; : the sea covered me completely, : and seaweed was wrapped round my head. 
Then Barnabas came to his help and took him to the apostles. He explained to them how Saul had seen the Lord on the road and that the Lord had spoken to him. He also told them how boldly Saul had preached in the name of Jesus in Damascus. 
Don't be like the wicked who scheme to rob honest people or to take away their homes. 
Grieve, you farmers; : cry, you that take care of the vineyards, : because the wheat, the barley, : yes, all the crops are destroyed. 
I would state my case before him : and present all the arguments in my favour. 
He looked at the people sitting round him and said, “Look! Here are my mother and my brothers!  
Even if one person out of ten remains in the land, he too will be destroyed; he will be like the stump of an oak tree that has been cut down.” : (The stump represents a new beginning for God's people.)
When he said this, I stared at the ground, speechless. 
By the authority of our Lord Jesus Christ I appeal to all of you, my brothers and sisters, to agree in what you say, so that there will be no divisions among you. Be completely united, with only one thought and one purpose. 
Then Jesus and his disciples went away to the villages near Caesarea Philippi. On the way he asked them, “Tell me, who do people say I am?” 
Children, it is your Christian duty to obey your parents always, for that is what pleases God. 
and then you will not associate with these peoples left among you or speak the names of their gods or use those names in taking vows or worship those gods or bow down to them. 
But those who want to get rich fall into temptation and are caught in the trap of many foolish and harmful desires, which pull them down to ruin and destruction. 
I looked, and there was a white horse. Its rider held a bow, and he was given a crown. He rode out as a conqueror to conquer. 
If anyone makes any like it for use as perfume, he will no longer be considered one of my people.”
Demons also went out from many people, screaming, “You are the Son of God!” : Jesus gave the demons an order and would not let them speak, because they knew that he was the Messiah. 
All your people, under your protection, saw this miracle and went across. 
Children, it is your Christian duty to obey your parents, for this is the right thing to do. 
“Love the LORD your God and always obey all his laws. 
People may go to sea even if they have no skill, because you can save them from any danger. 
From there the people moved to Hazeroth, where they made camp.
sharing expenses with a business partner or a travelling companion, : sharing an inheritance, 
Rise, LORD God Almighty, and come to my aid; : see for yourself, God of Israel! : Wake up and punish the heathen; : show no mercy to evil traitors! 
Zelophehad, son of Hepher, son of Gilead, son of Machir, son of Manasseh, did not have any sons, but only daughters. Their names were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah. 
The priest shall examine him, and if there is a reddish-white sore, 
Soon after Zedekiah became king of Judah, the LORD Almighty spoke to me about the country of Elam. 
Jeroboam said to his wife, “Disguise yourself so that no one will recognize you, and go to Shiloh, where the prophet Ahijah lives, the one who said I would be king of Israel. 
After this, Joseph, who was from the town of Arimathea, asked Pilate if he could take Jesus' body. (Joseph was a follower of Jesus, but in secret, because he was afraid of the Jewish authorities.) Pilate told him he could have the body, so Joseph went and took it away. 
Listen to us, O God; look at us, and see the trouble we are in and the suffering of the city that bears your name. We are praying to you because you are merciful, not because we have done right. 
“This is the command of Cyrus, Emperor of Persia. The LORD, the God of Heaven, has made me ruler over the whole world and has given me the responsibility of building a temple for him in Jerusalem in Judah. Now, all of you who are God's people, go there, and may the LORD your God be with you.”
Whoever touches them or their dead bodies will be unclean until evening. 
Then you will call for wisdom, but I will not answer. You may look for me everywhere, but you will not find me. 
I am sending him back to you now, and with him goes my heart. 
Then he brought me into the inner courtyard. There were two rooms opening on the inner courtyard, one facing south beside the north gateway and the other facing north beside the south gateway.  
After he had finished speaking with Abraham, the LORD went away, and Abraham returned home.
Do not curse a deaf man or put something in front of a blind man so as to make him stumble over it. Obey me; I am the LORD your God. 
Go ahead — eat your food and be happy; drink your wine and be cheerful. It's all right with God. 
But now God's way of putting people right with himself has been revealed. It has nothing to do with law, even though the Law of Moses and the prophets gave their witness to it. 
Foreigners bow before me; : when they hear me, they obey. 
They may serve me in the Temple by taking charge of the gates and by performing the work of the Temple. They may kill the animals which the people offer for burnt offerings and for sacrifices, and they are to be on duty to serve the people. 
For I hear of your love for all God's people and the faith you have in the Lord Jesus. 
There are four animals in the world that are small, but very, very clever
Peter made his appeal to them and with many other words he urged them, saying, “Save yourselves from the punishment coming on this wicked people!” 
The LORD says, “Wine, both old and new, is robbing my people of their senses! 
All the people were filled with happiness, and the city was quiet, now that Athaliah had been killed in the palace. 
God will tolerate no challenge, and since he hears everything, you cannot hide your complaining from him. 
“Now then, give the Israelites the message that I, the Sovereign LORD, have for them: what I am going to do is not for the sake of you Israelites, but for the sake of my holy name, which you have disgraced in every country where you have gone. 
that person is to receive the punishment the accused would have received. In this way you will get rid of this evil. 
I discovered that laughter is foolish, that pleasure does you no good. 
Uzziah supplied the army with shields, spears, helmets, coats of armour, bows and arrows, and stones for slinging. 
If I thank God for my food, why should anyone criticize me about food for which I give thanks?” 
Among the creatures there was something that looked like a blazing torch, constantly moving. The fire would blaze up and shoot out flashes of lightning. 
During these forty years your clothes have not worn out, nor have your feet swollen up. 
Make the poles of acacia wood and cover them with gold. 
You know that while you were still heathen, you were led astray in many ways to the worship of lifeless idols. 
It is God who clothes the wild grass — grass that is here today and gone tomorrow, burnt up in the oven. Won't he be all the more sure to clothe you? How little faith you have! 
Wild animals will roam there, and demons will call to each other. The night monster will come there looking for a place to rest. 
Lod, Hadid, and Ono — 725 
You people of Shaphir, go into exile, naked and ashamed. Those who live in Zaanan dare not come out of their city. When you hear the people of Bethezel mourn, you will know that there is no refuge there. 
People of Israel, the LORD is bringing a nation from afar to attack you. It is a strong and ancient nation, a nation whose language you do not know. 
He will be a great man in the Lord's sight. He must not drink any wine or strong drink. From his very birth he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, 
My knowledge is wide; I will use what I know : to show that God, my Creator, is just. 
Do not let anyone deceive you in any way. For the Day will not come until the final Rebellion takes place and the Wicked One appears, who is destined for hell. 
The men who had been taking care of the pigs ran away and spread the news in the town and among the farms. People went out to see what had happened, 
Your immortal spirit is in every one of them, 
and permanently disgraced. There will be a curse on her memory. After she is gone, 
Jesus and his disciples were now on the road going up to Jerusalem. Jesus was going ahead of the disciples, who were filled with alarm; the people who followed behind were afraid. Once again Jesus took the twelve disciples aside and spoke of the things that were going to happen to him. 
David's fame spread everywhere, and the LORD made every nation afraid of him.
But at the height of his power his empire will break up and be divided into four parts. Kings not descended from him will rule in his place, but they will not have the power that he had. 
“I don't know, sir. You do,” I answered. : He said to me, “These are the people who have come safely through the terrible persecution. They have washed their robes and made them white with the blood of the Lamb. 
But keep away from those godless legends, which are not worth telling. Keep yourself in training for a godly life. 
Jephthah said to them, “If you take me back home to fight the Ammonites and the LORD gives me victory, I will be your ruler.” 
They were all coming after him and screaming, “Kill him!” 
Samaria must be punished for rebelling against me. Her people will die in war; babies will be dashed to the ground, and pregnant women will be ripped open.”
Then, on the evening of the fourteenth day of the month, the whole community of Israel will kill the animals. 
“Come in, ignorant people!” And to the foolish she says, 
If you need slaves, you may buy them from the nations round you. 
As for me, I do what is right; : be merciful to me and save me! 
Later, when the child was old enough, she took him to the king's daughter, who adopted him as her own son. She said to herself, “I pulled him out of the water, and so I name him Moses.” 
The day of the LORD will bring darkness and not light; it will be a day of gloom, without any brightness. 
I am placing in front of Joshua a single stone with seven facets. I will engrave an inscription on it, and in a single day I will take away the sin of this land. 
We are full of courage and would much prefer to leave our home in the body and be at home with the Lord. 
There was a chief tax collector there named Zacchaeus, who was rich. 
Anyone who opposes him, even God's High Priest, will be swept away and wiped out. 
Heaven is yours, the earth also; : you made the world and everything in it. 
They were accompanied by nine Levites and two priests. The Levites were Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah, and Tobadonijah; and the priests were Elishama and Jehoram. 
He was the most famous of “The Thirty” and became their leader, but he was not as famous as “The Three”. 
A person's thoughts are like water in a deep well, but someone with insight can draw them out. 
Silence those liars — : all the proud and arrogant : who speak with contempt about the righteous. 
They built places of worship for false gods, and put up stone pillars and symbols of Asherah to worship on the hills and under shady trees. 
Yes, said the Philosopher, I found this out little by little while I was looking for answers. 
But even if they sprouted and blossomed the very morning you planted them, there would still be no harvest. There would be only trouble and incurable pain. 
who would ask him, “Where did you go on a raid this time?” and David would tell him that he had gone to the southern part of Judah or to the territory of the clan of Jerahmeel or to the territory where the Kenites lived. 
Moses held out his hand over the sea, and the LORD drove the sea back with a strong east wind. It blew all night and turned the sea into dry land. The water was divided, 
From Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ — : To those who through the righteousness of our God and Saviour Jesus Christ have been given a faith as precious as ours
Even birds and animals have much they could teach you; 
I cried to you for help, O LORD my God, : and you healed me; 
You will fold them up like a coat, : and they will be changed like clothes. : But you are always the same, : and your life never ends.” 
Then the king got up, and went and sat near the city gate. His men heard that he was there, and they all gathered round him. : Meanwhile all the Israelites had fled to their own homes. 
If someone has a hot temper, let him take the consequences. If you get him out of trouble once, you will have to do it again. 
For my flesh is the real food; my blood is the real drink.  
Tobit, when you and Sarah prayed to the Lord, I was the one who brought your prayers into his glorious presence. I did the same thing each time you buried the dead. 
When they heard this, they all left, one by one, the older ones first. Jesus was left alone, with the woman still standing there. 
There at the threshing place Araunah and his four sons were threshing wheat, and when they saw the angel, the sons ran and hid. 
Tahath, Uriel, Uzziah, Shaul. 
They came in swarms and settled over the whole country. It was the largest swarm of locusts that had ever been seen or that ever would be seen again. 
But you, O God, will bring those murderers and liars to their graves : before half their life is over. : As for me, I will trust in you.
As soon as she saw them, she was filled with lust and sent messengers to them in Babylonia. 
(He said this because Jesus was saying, “Evil spirit, come out of this man!”) 
Enoch had a son named Irad, who was the father of Mehujael, and Mehujael had a son named Methushael, who was the father of Lamech. 
Who can tell all the great things he has done? : Who can praise him enough? 
Cook me some of that tasty food that I like, and bring it to me. After I have eaten it, I will give you my final blessing before I die.” 
Then Daniel went home and told his friends Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah what had happened. 
I obey your teachings; : I love them with all my heart. 
Some of them were convinced and joined Paul and Silas; so did many of the leading women and a large group of Greeks who worshipped God. 
Their children run and play like lambs 
Then he gives a command, and the ice melts; : he sends the wind, and the water flows. 
The LORD says, “Let my people return to me. Remove every obstacle from their path! Build the road, and make it ready! 
Jesus went round visiting all the towns and villages. He taught in the synagogues, preached the Good News about the Kingdom, and healed people with every kind of disease and sickness. 
Think before you speak, and don't make any rash promises to God. He is in heaven and you are on earth, so don't say any more than you have to. 
I will bring them from the north : and gather them from the ends of the earth. : The blind and the lame will come with them, : pregnant women and those about to give birth. : They will come back a great nation. 
What I say to you, then, I say to all: watch!”
You claim that what you say is true; : you claim you are pure in the sight of God. 
You save those who are humble, : but you humble those who are proud. 
I have cried until my face is red, : and my eyes are swollen and circled with shadows, 
After removing him, God made David their king. This is what God said about him: ‘I have found that David son of Jesse is the kind of man I like, a man who will do all I want him to do.’ 
and Ulam had a son named Bedan. These are all descendants of Gilead, the son of Machir and grandson of Manasseh. 
They shall be responsible for carrying the frames, bars, posts, and bases of the Tent, 
I know how terrible your sins are and how many crimes you have committed. You persecute good people, take bribes, and prevent the poor from getting justice in the courts. 
When David arrived at Mahanaim, he was met by Shobi son of Nahash, from the city of Rabbah in Ammon, and by Machir son of Ammiel, from Lodebar, and by Barzillai, from Rogelim in Gilead. 
You heard his blasphemy. What is your decision?” : They all voted against him: he was guilty and should be put to death. 
But then they remembered the past, the days of Moses, the servant of the LORD, and they asked, “Where now is the LORD, who saved the leaders of his people from the sea? Where is the LORD, who gave his Spirit to Moses? 
The God and Father of the Lord Jesus — blessed be his name for ever! — knows that I am not lying. 
dip a finger of his right-hand in it, and sprinkle some of it seven times there in the LORD's presence. 
During his reign silver and gold became as common in Jerusalem as stone, and cedar was as plentiful as ordinary sycomore. 
Dreams have misled many people; they put their faith in them, only to be disappointed. 
This made the LORD angry, so he sent a prophet to Amaziah. The prophet demanded, “Why have you worshipped foreign gods that could not even save their own people from your power?” 
Ahaz was the father of Jehoaddah, who was the father of three sons: Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. Zimri was the father of Moza, 
but he did not invite his half brother Solomon or Nathan the prophet, or Benaiah, or the king's bodyguard. 
And many people there believed in him.
Even the best and most honest of them are as worthless as weeds. : The day has come when God will punish the people, as he warned them through their watchmen, the prophets. Now they are in confusion. 
Driven hard like donkeys or camels, : we are tired, but are allowed no rest. 
For from his heart come the evil ideas which lead him to kill, commit adultery, and do other immoral things; to rob, lie, and slander others.  
All night long the people cried out in distress. 
So the place was named Taberah, because there the fire of the LORD burnt among them. 
you love what is right and hate what is evil. : That is why God, your God, has chosen you : and has poured out more happiness on you : than on any other king. 
God was displeased with what had been done, so he punished Israel. 
then your name will be remembered in my Temple and among my people longer than if you had sons and daughters. You will never be forgotten.” 
Everyone has forgotten me, as though I were dead; : I am like something thrown away. 
It was food that under normal circumstances would vanish away like snow or ice, but now it did not melt even in the fire. This was meant to teach your people that the same fire that was destroying their enemies' crops during the heavy downpour of rain and hail 
Almost at once Tattenai, governor of West Euphrates, Shethar Bozenai, and their fellow-officials came to Jerusalem and demanded: “Who gave you orders to build this Temple and equip it?” 
When Ashdod was captured, the LORD said, “My servant Isaiah has been going about naked and barefoot for three years. This is a sign of what will happen to Egypt and Ethiopia. 
In the course of time Joseph, his brothers, and all the rest of that generation died, 
They said to one another, “Here comes that dreamer. 
You take smooth stones from there and worship them as gods. You pour out wine as offerings to them and bring them grain offerings. Do you think I am pleased with all this? 
My dear friend, you are so faithful in the work you do for your fellow-Christians, even when they are strangers. 
She gave victory to the oppressed people of Israel, : when she took off her widow's clothes, : and put on a linen dress to entice him. : She put on her rich perfumes : and tied a ribbon round her hair. 
In their celebration the women sang, “Saul has killed thousands, but David tens of thousands.” 
What I say is this: let the Spirit direct your lives, and you will not satisfy the desires of the human nature. 
And I prayed earnestly to the Lord God, pleading with him, fasting, wearing sackcloth, and sitting in ashes. 
They came to a place called Gethsemane, and Jesus said to his disciples, “Sit here while I pray.”  
What a wonderful woman you are! : How beautiful are your feet in sandals. : The curve of your thighs : is like the work of an artist. 
Who has ever given him anything, : so that he had to pay it back?” 
And so I tell you that those who worship and obey me will have plenty to eat and drink, but you will be hungry and thirsty. They will be happy, but you will be disgraced. 
The servant said, “Don't worry. Don't be afraid. Your God, the God of your father, must have put the money in your sacks for you. I received your payment.” Then he brought Simeon to them. 
The jailer did not have to look after anything for which Joseph was responsible, because the LORD was with Joseph and made him succeed in everything he did.
In time to come you will acknowledge that I am God and that I have spoken to you.” 
Jacob tore his clothes in sorrow and put on sackcloth. He mourned for his son a long time. 
Your lives will be filled with the truly good qualities which only Jesus Christ can produce, for the glory and praise of God. 
listen to your people's prayers. If there in that land they repent and pray to you, confessing how sinful and wicked they have been, hear their prayers, O LORD. 
The nation of Israel will trample them down : And wipe out the last survivors.” 
He is the God who makes me strong, : who makes my pathway safe. 
but those of you who were faithful to the LORD your God are still alive today. 
Each frame was four metres tall and 66 centimetres wide, 
and the punishment which I am going to bring on Jerusalem will not come until after your death. I will let you die in peace.” : The men returned to King Josiah with this message.
and like its gold shaft set on its silver base are her shapely legs and strong ankles.   
Then the kings of Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, Zeboiim, and Bela drew up their armies for battle in the Valley of Siddim and fought 
“You said that the two nations, Judah and Israel, together with their lands, belonged to you and that you would possess them, even though I, the LORD, was their God. 
God says, : “Summon my people to court. : They have eyes, but they are blind; : they have ears, but they are deaf! 
because he has rejected what the LORD said and has deliberately broken one of his commands. He is responsible for his own death. 
In this way Jesse brought seven of his sons to Samuel. And Samuel said to him, “No, the LORD hasn't chosen any of these.” 
He will always have descendants, : and I will watch over his kingdom as long as the sun shines. 
Ummah, Aphek, and Rehob: 22 cities, along with the towns round them. 
Now, it is clear that no one is put right with God by means of the Law, because the scripture says, “Only the person who is put right with God through faith shall live.”  
If I have more, I might say that I do not need you. But if I am poor, I might steal and bring disgrace on my God. 
Evil people make slaves of fatherless infants : and take the children of the poor in payment for debts. 
But people who are foolish or sinful will never even catch sight of Wisdom. 
Come back to the Lord quickly. Don't think that you can keep putting it off. His anger can come upon you suddenly, and you will die under his punishment. 
He leaves a shining path behind him : and turns the sea to white foam. 
That same night Jacob got up, took his two wives, his two concubines, and his eleven children, and crossed the River Jabbok. 
The LORD said, “Return to the wilderness near Damascus, then enter the city and anoint Hazael as king of Syria; 
Then I took the stick called “Favour” and broke it, to cancel the covenant which the LORD had made with all the nations. 
He instructed them to say: “I, Jacob, your obedient servant, report to my master Esau that I have been staying with Laban and that I have delayed my return until now. 
Give your help to the poor, and the Lord will give you his perfect blessing. 
In it were the gold altar for the burning of incense and the Covenant Box all covered with gold and containing the gold jar with the manna in it, Aaron's stick that had sprouted leaves, and the two stone tablets with the commandments written on them. 
Many nations will help the people of Israel to return to the land which the LORD gave them, and there the nations will serve Israel as slaves. Those who once captured Israel will now be captured by Israel, and the people of Israel will rule over those who once oppressed them. 
And so I command the sky to shake with horror, : to be amazed and astonished, 
Ahimaaz insisted, “I don't care what happens; please let me take the news also.” : “Why do you want to do it, my son?” Joab asked. “You will get no reward for it.” 
The wise get all the knowledge they can, but when fools speak, trouble is not far off. 
Whoever touches a corpse is ritually unclean for seven days. 
You taught them to keep your Sabbaths holy, : and through your servant Moses you gave them your laws. 
And you, Jerusalem, where God, like a shepherd, watches over his people, will once again be the capital of the kingdom that was yours. 
Samuel did what the LORD told him to do and went to Bethlehem, where the city leaders came trembling to meet him and asked, “Is this a peaceful visit, seer?” 
So Delilah got some new ropes and tied him up. Then she shouted, “Samson! The Philistines are coming!” The men were waiting in another room. But he snapped the ropes off his arms like thread. 
Again the LORD spoke to me and said, 
You set up your obscene idols just inside your front doors. You forsake me; you take off your clothes and climb into your large beds with your lovers, whom you pay to sleep with you. And there you satisfy your lust. 
As the scripture says: : “It is difficult for good people to be saved; : what, then, will become of godless sinners?” 
Then the father remembered it was at that very hour that Jesus had told him, “Your son will live.” So he and all his family believed. 
They know God, but they do not give him the honour that belongs to him, nor do they thank him. Instead, their thoughts have become complete nonsense, and their empty minds are filled with darkness. 
He saw one of them being ill-treated by an Egyptian, so he went to his help and took revenge on the Egyptian by killing him. 
Tell them that what you have done is a sign of what will happen to them — they will be refugees and captives. 
After the death of the LORD's servant Moses, the LORD spoke to Moses' helper, Joshua son of Nun. 
At Daniel's request the king put Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in charge of the affairs of the province of Babylon; Daniel, however, remained at the royal court.
Abdon, Zichri, Hanan, 
At one time you yourselves used to live according to such desires, when your life was dominated by them. 
Instead, you plan to escape from your enemies by riding fast horses. And you are right — escape is what you will have to do! You think your horses are fast enough, but those who pursue you will be faster! 
When you offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving to the LORD, follow the rules so that you will be accepted; 
In the third year of the reign of Hoshea son of Elah as king of Israel, Hezekiah son of Ahaz became king of Judah 
I will rescue you from the people of Israel and from the Gentiles to whom I will send you.  
It was faith that kept Enoch from dying. Instead, he was taken up to God, and nobody could find him, because God had taken him up. The scripture says that before Enoch was taken up, he had pleased God. 
“Naphtali is a deer that runs free, : Who bears lovely fawns. 
They married within the clans of the tribe of Manasseh son of Joseph, and their property remained in their father's tribe. 
I am writing this to you, my children, so that you will not sin; but if anyone does sin, we have someone who pleads with the Father on our behalf — Jesus Christ, the righteous one. 
Jesus asked, “Who touched me?” : Everyone denied it, and Peter said, “Master, the people are all round you and crowding in on you.” 
Solomon also built a palace for himself, and it took him thirteen years. 
Reverence for the LORD is good; : it will continue for ever. : The judgements of the LORD are just; : they are always fair. 
May your priests do always what is right; : may your people shout for joy! 
But Jacob said to his mother, “You know that Esau is a hairy man, but I have smooth skin. 
At once Ahab went to the vineyard to take possession of it. 
Stop punishing me, God! : Keep your terrors away! 
He sends light to places dark as death. 
Like the Anakim they were also known as Rephaim; but the Moabites called them Emim. 
Elijah was afraid, and fled for his life; he took his servant and went to Beersheba in Judah. : Leaving the servant there, 
Enjoy life with the woman you love, as long as you live the useless life that God has given you in this world. Enjoy every useless day of it, because that is all you will get for all your trouble. 
Abraham had two sons, Isaac and Ishmael. 
“Give the Israelites the following laws
and said, “Why do you listen to people who say that I am trying to harm you? 
In his disciples' presence Jesus performed many other miracles which are not written down in this book. 
While the killing was going on, I was there alone. I threw myself face downwards on the ground and shouted, “Sovereign LORD, are you so angry with Jerusalem that you are going to kill everyone left in Israel?” 
not to be so easily confused in your thinking or upset by the claim that the Day of the Lord has come. Perhaps it is thought that we said this while prophesying or preaching, or that we wrote it in a letter. 
A long illness puzzles the doctor. Even a king may be alive today and dead tomorrow. 
I will forgive the sins he has committed, and he will live because he has done what is right and good. 
For it was by hope that we were saved; but if we see what we hope for, then it is not really hope. For which of us hopes for something we see? 
Your wickedness is evident by what you say; : you are trying to hide behind clever words. 
He did not stay in Nazareth, but went to live in Capernaum, a town by Lake Galilee, in the territory of Zebulun and Naphtali. 
On his return from Damascus, Ahaz saw that the altar was finished, 
The message also went to the people living in Samaria and the nearby towns, to those in the area west of the River Jordan as far as the cities of Jerusalem, Bethany, Chelous, and Kadesh, and to the district of Goshen. The message was also taken to the Egyptian cities of Tahpanhes, Rameses, Tanis, and Memphis, and the district up the River Nile to the Sudan border. 
God will do what is right: he will bring suffering on those who make you suffer, 
He sent Eliakim, the official in charge of the palace, Shebna, the court secretary, and the senior priests to the prophet Isaiah son of Amoz. They also were wearing sackcloth. 
Obey your parents as if you were their slave. 
He also gave instructions as to how much pure gold was to be used in making forks, bowls, and jars, how much silver and gold in making dishes, 
at the age of 25, and he ruled in Jerusalem for 29 years. His mother was Abijah, the daughter of Zechariah. 
You have always been gracious to your people; listen to your servants as we pray. Then everyone on earth will recognize that you are the Lord, the God of the ages. 
Suddenly the power of the LORD made Samson strong, and he tore the lion apart with his bare hands, as if it were a young goat. But he did not tell his parents what he had done. 
The official records of all the families of the tribe of Issachar listed 87,000 men eligible for military service. 
and began to speak. : I am young, and you are old, : so I was afraid to tell you what I think. 
May the Lord himself, who is our source of peace, give you peace at all times and in every way. The Lord be with you all. 
After Gomer had weaned her daughter, she became pregnant again and had another son. 
They reported to the angel: “We have been all over the world and have found that the whole world lies helpless and subdued.” 
The people praised anyone else who volunteered to live in Jerusalem. 
Let them eat all they want! : God will punish them in fury and anger. 
Joseph provided food for his father, his brothers, and all the rest of his father's family, including the very youngest. 
Its victims are those who have abandoned the Lord; once the fire of slander has been lit among them, it cannot be put out. Slander will pounce on them like a lion and tear them to pieces like a leopard. 
And so we shall all come together to that oneness in our faith and in our knowledge of the Son of God; we shall become mature people, reaching to the very height of Christ's full stature. 
and led them to Baalah in Judah, in order to bring from there God's Covenant Box, bearing the name of the LORD Almighty, who is enthroned above the winged creatures.  
The LORD will keep you safe. He will not let you fall into a trap. 
it comes out in the morning like a happy bridegroom, : like an athlete eager to run a race. 
listen to their prayers. If any of your people Israel, out of heartfelt sorrow, stretch out their hands in prayer towards this Temple, 
Again Jesus asked, “What shall I compare the Kingdom of God with?  
Are you immature? Learn to be mature. : Are you foolish? Learn to have sense. 
so he gave them what they asked for, : but also sent a terrible disease among them. 
Now that I am old and my hair is grey, : do not abandon me, O God! : Be with me while I proclaim your power and might : to all generations to come. 
You are not pleased with animals burnt whole on the altar : or with sacrifices to take away sins. 
Then you will come out of hiding and capture the city. The LORD your God will give it to you. 
But please stay the night, as the others did, so that I may learn whether or not the LORD has something else to tell me.” 
Wail and cry when you hear this, you that live in the lower part of the city, because all the merchants will be dead! 
So, in all our trouble and suffering we have been encouraged about you, brothers and sisters. It was your faith that encouraged us, 
“And now, Sovereign LORD, you are God; you always keep your promises, and you have made this wonderful promise to me. 
But I did not, since that would have brought dishonour to my name among the nations which had seen me lead Israel out of Egypt. 
Happy are the pure in heart; :   they will see God! 
“Listen to this, you lover of pleasure, : you that think you are safe and secure. : You claim you are as great as God — : that there is no one else like you. : You thought that you would never be a widow : or suffer the loss of your children. 
‘I am the LORD your God, who rescued you from Egypt, where you were slaves. 
The officers are summoned; : they stumble as they press forward. : The attackers rush to the wall : and set up the shield for the battering ram. 
Here, too, there was a gateway leading to the inner courtyard. The man measured the distance to this second gateway, and it was fifty metres. 
“Take the stick that is in front of the Covenant Box, and then you and Aaron assemble the whole community. There in front of them all speak to that rock over there, and water will gush out of it. In this way you will bring water out of the rock for the people, for them and their animals to drink.” 
Never seek honour for yourself at your father's expense; it is not to your credit if he is dishonoured. 
Then the Lamb broke open the fifth seal. I saw underneath the altar the souls of those who had been killed because they had proclaimed God's word and had been faithful in their witnessing. 
I sent messengers to say to them, “I am doing important work and can't go down there. I am not going to let the work stop just to go and see you.” 
Here we are, then, speaking for Christ, as though God himself were making his appeal through us. We plead on Christ's behalf: let God change you from enemies into his friends! 
If he does not, he must suffer the consequences.
who put it in the food bag. : Then the two women left together, as they always did when they went to pray. After they had walked through the Assyrian camp, they crossed the valley and went up the mountainside until they came to the gates of Bethulia. 
Don't miss your chance to marry a wise and good woman. A gracious wife is worth more than gold. 
“Punish them for what they have done, O LORD; 
All of us have been sinful; even our best actions are filthy through and through. Because of our sins we are like leaves that wither and are blown away by the wind. 
Moses replied, “If you do not go with us, don't make us leave this place. 
He sends hail like gravel; : no one can endure the cold he sends! 
He is going to punish the people of Amalek because their ancestors opposed the Israelites when they were coming from Egypt. 
Then the wife of Zebedee came to Jesus with her two sons, bowed before him, and asked him a favour. 
On the day when the LORD shows his fury, not even all their silver and gold will save them. The whole earth will be destroyed by the fire of his anger. He will put an end — a sudden end — to everyone who lives on earth.
Then I looked, and there was the Lamb standing on Mount Zion; with him were 144,000 people who have his name and his Father's name written on their foreheads. 
I regarded her more highly than any throne or crown. Wealth was nothing compared to her. 
Be brave, Philistines! Fight like men, or we will become slaves to the Hebrews, just as they were our slaves. So fight like men!” 
Uzziah became king at the age of sixteen, and he ruled in Jerusalem for 52 years. His mother was Jecoliah from Jerusalem. 
The family line from Attai to Elishama is as follows: Attai, Nathan, Zabad, 
The three guardrooms on each side of the passage, the walls between them, and the entrance room all had the same measurements as those in the east gateway. The total length of the gateway was 25 metres and the width 12.5 metres. 
The Sovereign LORD said, “Look at Jerusalem. I put her at the centre of the world, with other countries all round her. 
and said to him, ‘Leave your family and country and go to the land that I will show you.’ 
Nobah attacked and captured Kenath and its villages, and he renamed it Nobah, after himself.
And so I follow all your instructions; : I hate all wrong ways. 
People who promise things that they never give are like clouds and wind that bring no rain. 
All who hate others are murderers, and you know that murderers have not got eternal life in them. 
While they were still talking, the palace eunuchs arrived in a hurry to take Haman to Esther's banquet.
The people of Israel are to keep this day as a sign of the covenant. 
Then the leaders of the town nearest to where the body was found are to select a young cow that has never been used for work. 
The LORD then gave this message to the people through the prophet Haggai
It will be four generations before your descendants come back here, because I will not drive out the Amorites until they become so wicked that they must be punished.” 
My children, our love should not be just words and talk; it must be true love, which shows itself in action. 
an instructor for the foolish, and a teacher for the ignorant. You are certain that in the Law you have the full content of knowledge and of truth. 
So I called Baruch son of Neriah and dictated to him everything that the LORD had said to me. And Baruch wrote it all down on a scroll. 
Of course not! Instead, you say to him, ‘Get my supper ready, then put on your apron and wait on me while I eat and drink; after that you may have your meal.’  
“Mortal man,” he said, “mourn for all the many people of Egypt. Send them down with the other powerful nations to the world of the dead. 
For about three hours the Law of the LORD their God was read to them, and for the next three hours they confessed their sins and worshipped the LORD their God. 
Then Isaiah sent a message telling King Hezekiah that in answer to the king's prayer 
My former companion attacked his friends; : he broke his promises. 
That night an angel of the LORD went to the Assyrian camp and killed 185,000 soldiers. At dawn the next day, there they lay, all dead! 
Jesus said to them again, “Peace be with you. As the Father sent me, so I send you.”  
I want to be buried where my fathers are; carry me out of Egypt and bury me where they are buried.” : Joseph answered, “I will do as you say.” 
In the morning he was worried, so he sent for all the magicians and wise men of Egypt. He told them his dreams, but no one could explain them to him. 
So he had John beheaded in prison. 
Job lived 140 years after this, long enough to see his grandchildren and great-grandchildren. 
Jehoshaphat succeeded his father Asa as king and strengthened his position against Israel. 
His voice makes the desert shake; : he shakes the desert of Kadesh. 
Then Samuel led Saul and his servant into the large room and gave them a place at the head of the table where the guests, about thirty in all, were seated. 
And now he can help those who are tempted, because he himself was tempted and suffered.
And so the promise was based on faith, in order that the promise should be guaranteed as God's free gift to all of Abraham's descendants — not just to those who obey the Law, but also to those who believe as Abraham did. For Abraham is the spiritual father of us all; 
the Law requires that you bring one. 
and the property will not pass from one tribe to another. Each tribe will continue to possess its own property.” 
I will give you the keys of the Kingdom of heaven; what you prohibit on earth will be prohibited in heaven, and what you permit on earth will be permitted in heaven.” 
“All right,” Judith replied, “I am going to do something which our Jewish people will never forget. 
Offer the proper grain offering of flour mixed with olive oil: three kilogrammes of flour with each bull, two kilogrammes with each ram, 
He had five other sons: Hashubah, Ohel, Berechiah, Hasadiah, and Jushab Hesed. 
We know that in all things God works for good with those who love him, those whom he has called according to his purpose. 
But if the sore spreads after the priest has examined him and pronounced him clean, he must appear before the priest again. 
All nations will remember the LORD. : From every part of the world they will turn to him; : all races will worship him. 
“Teacher, Moses wrote this law for us: ‘If a man dies and leaves a wife but no children, that man's brother must marry the widow so that they can have children who will be considered the dead man's children.’ 
The LORD answered, “This has happened because my people have abandoned the teaching that I gave them. They have not obeyed me or done what I told them. 
Your furious anger crushes me; : your terrible attacks destroy me. 
Then Nebuzaradan took away to Babylonia the people who were left in the city, the remaining skilled workmen, and those who had deserted to the Babylonians. 
but as soon as he arrived in Rome, he started looking for me until he found me. 
Though I have scattered them among the nations, : yet in far-off places they will remember me. : They and their children will survive : and return home together. 
all they do is think about what they would like to have. The righteous, however, can give, and give generously. 
who were the heads of the clans descended from Ladan. (Shimei had three sons: Shelomoth, Haziel, and Haran.)  
The LORD says, “The time is coming when I will be the God of all the tribes of Israel, and they will be my people. 
“When you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then you will know that it will soon be destroyed.  
they are envious, get drunk, have orgies, and do other things like these. I warn you now as I have before: those who do these things will not possess the Kingdom of God. 
How much longer, LORD God Almighty, : will you be angry with your people's prayers? 
A sensible daughter will get a husband, but a shameless daughter brings her father grief. 
Compared with most flying things, a bee is very small, but the honey it makes is the sweetest of foods. 
Come and listen, all who honour God, : and I will tell you what he has done for me. 
“All I foretold has now taken place; : you have to admit my predictions were right. : Now I will tell you of new things to come, : events that I did not reveal before. 
When they had reached Media and were approaching the city of Ecbatana, 
Then Solomon made a solemn promise in the LORD's name, “May God strike me dead if I don't make Adonijah pay with his life for asking this! 
We believe human testimony; but God's testimony is much stronger, and he has given this testimony about his Son. 
All the posts round the enclosure are to be connected with silver rods, and their hooks are to be made of silver and their bases of bronze. 
Enter the temple gates with thanksgiving, : go into its courts with praise. : Give thanks to him and praise him. 
After three months we sailed away on a ship from Alexandria, called “The Twin Gods”, which had spent the winter in the island. 
When he was insulted, he did not answer back with an insult; when he suffered, he did not threaten, but placed his hopes in God, the righteous Judge. 
They cry for help, but no one saves them; : they call to the LORD, but he does not answer. 
I baptize you with water to show that you have repented, but the one who will come after me will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. He is much greater than I am; and I am not good enough even to carry his sandals. 
Nebuchadnezzar carried away as prisoners the people of Jerusalem, all the royal princes, and all the leading men, 10,000 in all. He also deported all the skilled workmen, including the blacksmiths, leaving only the poorest of the people behind in Judah. 
An Israelite craftsman made the idol, and it is not a god at all! The gold bull worshipped in Samaria will be smashed to pieces! 
“Go and consult the LORD for me and for the people who still remain in Israel and Judah. Find out about the teachings of this book. The LORD is angry with us because our ancestors have not obeyed the word of the LORD and have not done what this book says must be done.” 
“We are the descendants of Abraham,” they answered, “and we have never been anybody's slaves. What do you mean, then, by saying, ‘You will be free’?” 
Do not have intercourse with your daughter-in-law 
“I, the Sovereign LORD, declare that no uncircumcised foreigner, no one who disobeys me, will enter my Temple, not even a foreigner who lives among the people of Israel.” 
He has said that this will be your fate. This is what he has decided to do with you, because you have forgotten him and have trusted in false gods. 
He spent his life in fellowship with God, and then he disappeared, because God took him away. 
How good and beautiful the land will be! : The young people will grow strong on its corn and wine.
Meet for worship on the seventh day and do no work. 
And we have seen and tell others that the Father sent his Son to be the Saviour of the world. 
Never say anything that isn't true. Have nothing to do with lies and misleading words. 
Why have you brought us out into this wilderness? Just so that we can die here with our animals? 
“Take the other ram — the ram used for dedication — and tell Aaron and his sons to put their hands on its head. 
Those things, which are copies of the heavenly originals, had to be purified in that way. But the heavenly things themselves require much better sacrifices. 
Sing praise to the LORD, who rules in Zion! : Tell every nation what he has done! 
David son of Jesse ruled over all Israel 
When the king of Nineveh heard about it, he got up from his throne, took off his robe, put on sackcloth, and sat down in ashes. 
When buried, it is a physical body; when raised, it will be a spiritual body. There is, of course, a physical body, so there has to be a spiritual body. 
Michael, Ishpah, and Joha. 
He created them male and female, blessed them, and named them “Humanity”.) 
He will give me glory, because he will take what I say and tell it to you.  
No matter how many children are born of a forbidden union, none of them will ever amount to anything. They are illegitimate; they can never lay a firm foundation for themselves, never take deep root. 
Their ancestor Jacob struggled with his twin brother Esau while the two of them were still in their mother's womb; when Jacob grew up, he fought against God — 
The water kept going down, and on the first day of the tenth month the tops of the mountains appeared. 
They answered, “The Hebrew women are not like Egyptian women; they give birth easily, and their babies are born before either of us gets there.” 
With God on our side we will win; : he will defeat our enemies.
As for those who follow this rule in their lives, may peace and mercy be with them — with them and with all God's people! 
Mahli had two sons, Eleazar and Kish. Eleazar had no sons, but Kish had one son, Jerahmeel. 
that Job is speaking from ignorance : and that nothing he says makes sense. 
that some worthless people of your nation have misled the people of their town to worship gods that you have never worshipped before. 
They put a purple robe on Jesus, made a crown out of thorny branches, and put it on his head. 
Once more Abner said to him, “Stop chasing me! Why force me to kill you? How could I face your brother Joab?” 
Paul and Silas left the prison and went to Lydia's house. There they met the believers, spoke words of encouragement to them, and left.
“Come, eat my food and drink the wine that I have mixed. 
Don't prophesy here at Bethel any more. This is the king's place of worship, the national temple.” 
I alone know the plans I have for you, plans to bring you prosperity and not disaster, plans to bring about the future you hope for.  
Here, then, is my receipt for everything you have given me — and it has been more than enough! I have all I need now that Epaphroditus has brought me all your gifts. They are like a sweet-smelling offering to God, a sacrifice which is acceptable and pleasing to him. 
But my Sovereign LORD, help me as you have promised, : and rescue me because of the goodness of your love. 
In the middle of the night I wake up : to praise you for your righteous judgements. 
“We remain loyal to you, great King Nebuchadnezzar; we are ready to serve you and obey any command that you may wish to give us. 
David replied, “Here is your spear, Your Majesty. Let one of your men come over and get it. 
You are driving me off the land and away from your presence. I will be a homeless wanderer on the earth, and anyone who finds me will kill me.” 
Everything else that Jehoash did, including his bravery in the war against King Amaziah of Judah, is recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel. 
Have you been caught by your own words, trapped by your own promises? 
I said to them, “The LORD, the God of Israel, to whom you sent me with your request has said, 
You have changed my sadness into a joyful dance; : you have taken away my sorrow : and surrounded me with joy. 
An arrow splits the air when it is shot at a target, but at once the air closes up behind it, and no one can tell where it passed. 
And every day in the Temple and in people's homes they continued to teach and preach the Good News about Jesus the Messiah.
My master made me promise with a vow to obey his command. He said, ‘Do not choose a wife for my son from the young women in the land of Canaan. 
And so I beg you to let him know that you really do love him. 
With a solemn oath to our ancestor Abraham : he promised to rescue us from our enemies : and allow us to serve him without fear, 
When he arrived there in the hill country of Ephraim, he blew a trumpet to call the men of Israel to battle; then he led them down from the hills. 
I am going to use wise sayings : and explain mysteries from the past, 
The secret is that by means of the gospel the Gentiles have a part with the Jews in God's blessings; they are members of the same body and share in the promise that God made through Christ Jesus. 
God never twists justice; : he never fails to do what is right. 
Men from Persia, Ethiopia, and Libya are with him, and all have shields and helmets. 
Kohath was the father of Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel; 
Yes, those of Memphis and Tahpanhes : have cracked his skull. 
Then the land will enjoy the years of complete rest that you would not give it; it will lie abandoned and get its rest while you are in exile in the land of your enemies. 
When the day of Pentecost came, all the believers were gathered together in one place. 
He gave himself for us, to rescue us from all wickedness and to make us a pure people who belong to him alone and are eager to do good. 
But now, because you have worshipped images of Sakkuth, your king god, and of Kaiwan, your star god, you will have to carry those images 
How much longer will you forget me, LORD? For ever? : How much longer will you hide yourself from me? 
So he went to work for one of the citizens of that country, who sent him out to his farm to take care of the pigs.  
Put the Urim and Thummim in the breastpiece, so that Aaron will carry them when he comes into my holy presence. At such times he must always wear this breastpiece, so that he can determine my will for the people of Israel. 
The second servant came and said, ‘Sir, I have earned five gold coins with the one you gave me.’  
He commanded, and a mighty wind began to blow : and stirred up the waves. 
You, LORD, are my light; : you dispel my darkness. 
Why have you said in the LORD's name that this Temple will become like Shiloh and that this city will be destroyed and no one will live in it?” Then the people crowded round me. 
“Don't forget what I am about to tell you! The Son of Man is going to be handed over to the power of human beings.”  
His father, on the other hand, cheated and robbed, and always did evil to everyone. And so he died because of the sins he himself had committed. 
In the following instructions, however, I do not praise you, because your meetings for worship actually do more harm than good. 
Benjamin had three sons: Bela, Becher, and Jediael. 
The LORD says, : “Listen, you deaf people! : Look closely, you that are blind! 
I saw that you had already disobeyed the command that the LORD your God had given you, and that you had sinned against him by making yourselves a metal idol in the form of a bull calf. 
But many who now are first will be last, and many who now are last will be first.
LORD, I call to you for help; : every morning I pray to you. 
Listen to my prayer, : and save me according to your promise! 
But the sons of Moses, the man of God, were included among the Levites.) 
Plunder the silver! : Plunder the gold! : The city is full of treasure! 
“The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, :   because he has chosen me to bring good news to the poor. :   He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives :   and recovery of sight to the blind; :   to set free the oppressed 
Moses told Jethro everything that the LORD had done to the king and the people of Egypt in order to rescue the Israelites. He also told him about the hardships the people had faced on the way and how the LORD had saved them. 
The time for punishment has come, the time when people will get what they deserve. When that happens, Israel will know it! “This prophet,” you say, “is a fool. This inspired man is insane.” You people hate me so much because your sin is so great. 
People shout in the streets because there is no more wine. Happiness is gone for ever; it has been banished from the land. 
When Saul's men came to get David, Michal told them that he was ill. 
Besides all that, there is a deep pit lying between us, so that those who want to cross over from here to you cannot do so, nor can anyone cross over to us from where you are.’  
And there is a difference between God's gift and the sin of one man. After the one sin, came the judgement of “Guilty”; but after so many sins, comes the undeserved gift of “Not guilty!” 
Ahaziah had a half-sister, Jehosheba, who was married to a priest named Jehoiada. She secretly rescued one of Ahaziah's sons, Joash, took him away from the other princes who were about to be murdered and hid him and a nurse in a bedroom at the Temple. By keeping him hidden, she saved him from death at the hands of Athaliah. 
Even when righteous people are dead and gone, they put to shame the wicked people who live on after them. In their old age the wicked will be disgraced by young people who have already achieved perfection. 
But my trust is in you, O LORD; : you are my God. 
Saul ordered them, “Find me a man who plays well and bring him to me.” 
“ ‘God's curse on anyone who has sexual relations with an animal.’ : “And all the people will answer, ‘Amen!’ 
We sailed from there and arrived off Chios the next day. A day later we came to Samos, and the following day we reached Miletus. 
They confessed their sins, and he baptized them in the Jordan. 
The LORD says, “Every morning a one-year-old lamb without any defects is to be burnt whole as an offering to the LORD. This offering must be made every day. 
when you leave me today, you will meet two men near Rachel's tomb at Zelzah in the territory of Benjamin. They will tell you that the donkeys you were looking for have been found, so that your father isn't worried any more about them but about you, and he keeps asking, ‘What shall I do about my son?’ 
“When Hezekiah was king of Judah, the prophet Micah of Moresheth told all the people that the LORD Almighty had said, : ‘Zion will be ploughed like a field, : Jerusalem will become a pile of ruins, : and the Temple hill will become a forest.’ 
Jesus stopped and said, “Call him.” : So they called the blind man. “Cheer up!” they said. “Get up, he is calling you.” 
But avoid stupid arguments, long lists of ancestors, quarrels, and fights about the Law. They are useless and worthless. 
I will terrify Gog with all sorts of calamities. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken. His men will turn their swords against one another. 
So I went and hid them near the Euphrates. 
I wrote it after King Jehoiachin, his mother, the palace officials, the leaders of Judah and of Jerusalem, the craftsmen, and the skilled workmen had been taken into exile. 
It would be better to be dead, asleep for ever, than to live in the misery of chronic illness. 
Moses answered, “Are you concerned about my interests? I wish that the LORD would give his Spirit to all his people and make all of them shout like prophets!” 
The LORD himself will strip off your clothes and expose you to shame. 
After all, whom should I serve, if not my master's son? As I served your father, so now I will serve you.” 
It is not that I must have a human witness; I say this only in order that you may be saved.  
Do not be like children in your thinking, my brothers and sisters; be children so far as evil is concerned, but be grown-up in your thinking. 
On the day that I do this, someone who escapes the destruction will come and tell you about it. 
“It was because you haven't enough faith,” answered Jesus. “I assure you that if you have faith as big as a mustard seed, you can say to this hill, ‘Go from here to there!’ and it will go. You could do anything!” 
The king took off his ring with his seal on it (which he had taken back from Haman) and gave it to Mordecai. Esther put Mordecai in charge of Haman's property. 
had the following sons, listed in the order of their birth: Nebaioth, Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam, 
And do not set up any stone pillar for idol worship; the LORD hates them.
Remember your servants Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Remember the solemn promise you made to them to give them as many descendants as there are stars in the sky and to give their descendants all that land you promised would be their possession for ever.” 
and made us a kingdom of priests to serve his God and Father. To Jesus Christ be the glory and power for ever and ever! Amen. 
He killed their grapevines with hail : and their fig trees with frost. 
He said, “Take the gifts given by the exiles Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah, and go at once to the home of Josiah son of Zephaniah. All these men have returned from exile in Babylonia. 
He shall sprinkle the blood seven times on the person who is to be purified from his skin disease, and then he shall pronounce him clean. He shall let the live bird fly away over the open fields. 
They took Absalom's body, threw it into a deep pit in the forest, and covered it with a huge pile of stones. All the Israelites fled to their own homes. 
As for me, the hour has come for me to be sacrificed; the time is here for me to leave this life. 
You moan and cry out in distress because the LORD in his anger has destroyed your nation and left your peaceful country in ruins. 
He was supreme ruler of all the kings in the territory from the River Euphrates to Philistia and the Egyptian border. 
The LORD commanded Moses 
Give thanks to the greatest of all gods; : his love is eternal. 
Then Moses went back to Jethro, his father-in-law, and said to him, “Please let me go back to my relatives in Egypt to see if they are still alive.” Jethro agreed and said goodbye to him. 
If a person looked at that symbol, he was cured of the snakebite — not by what he saw, but by you, the saviour of all mankind. 
Levi got up, left everything, and followed him. 
Why do you keep on rebelling? Do you want to be punished even more? Israel, your head is already covered with wounds, and your heart and mind are sick. 
So the servant set the food before them, and, as the LORD had said, they all ate and there was still some left over.
“Take care,” Jesus warned them, “and be on your guard against the yeast of the Pharisees and the yeast of Herod.” 
The commander of the troops from the clans of Benjamin was Eliada, an outstanding soldier, in command of 200,000 men armed with shields and bows. 
Then they will answer that it is because you have abandoned your covenant with me, your God, and have worshipped and served other gods.” 
Arrogant people insult others and make fun of them, but someone is waiting like a lion for a chance to take revenge on them. 
Crispus, who was the leader of the synagogue, believed in the Lord, together with all his family; and many other people in Corinth heard the message, believed, and were baptized. 
He sends disaster and ruin : to those who do wrong. 
Save me from those who oppress me, : so that I may obey your commands. 
He even built pagan places of worship in the Judean highlands and led the people of Judah and Jerusalem to sin against the LORD. 
He who gives his testimony to all this says, “Yes indeed! I am coming soon!” : So be it. Come, Lord Jesus! 
You make my enemies run from me; : I destroy those who hate me. 
The Sovereign LORD says, “As surely as I am the living God, I will punish him for breaking the treaty which he swore in my name to keep. 
They make their plans, and plot against him, : but they will not succeed. 
The soldiers said to one another, “Let's not tear it; let's throw dice to see who will get it.” This happened in order to make the scripture come true: : “They divided my clothes among themselves : and gambled for my robe.” : And this is what the soldiers did. 
Even the stones of the walls cry out against you, and the rafters echo the cry. 
People will go hunting there with bows and arrows. Yes, the whole country will be full of briars and thorn bushes. 
and I have filled him with my power. I have given him understanding, skill, and ability for every kind of artistic work — 
The woman quickly killed a calf which she had been fattening. Then she took some flour, prepared it, and baked some bread without yeast. 
Moses and Aaron replied, “The God of the Hebrews has revealed himself to us. Allow us to travel for three days into the desert to offer sacrifices to the LORD our God. If we don't do so, he will kill us with disease or by war.” 
He took off the robe he was wearing and gave it to David, together with his armour and also his sword, bow, and belt. 
I would quickly find myself a shelter : from the raging wind and the storm. 
“I can do nothing on my own authority; I judge only as God tells me, so my judgement is right, because I am not trying to do what I want, but only what he who sent me wants. 
If I do what is right, nobody will tell the Lord about it. Who wants to wait for him, anyway? He is too slow in doing what he has said he would.” 
Then even the bravest men, as fearless as lions, will be afraid because everyone in Israel knows that your father is a great soldier and that his men are hard fighters. 
Proclaim his glory to the nations, : his mighty deeds to all peoples. 
I will thank you, O Lord, among the nations. : I will praise you among the peoples. 
This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says about the rulers who were supposed to take care of his people: “You have not taken care of my people; you have scattered them and driven them away. Now I am going to punish you for the evil you have done. 
Whoever breaks one commandment is guilty of breaking them all. 
The riches you get by dishonesty soon disappear, but not before they lead you into the jaws of death. 
God has brought them out of Egypt; : He fights for them like a wild ox. 
But the one who was ill-treating the other pushed Moses aside. ‘Who made you ruler and judge over us?’ he asked. 
Smiling faces make you happy, and good news makes you feel better. 
All who trust in idols, : who call images their gods, : will be humiliated and disgraced.” 
Gaal said, “What kind of men are we in Shechem? Why are we serving Abimelech? Who is he, anyway? The son of Gideon! And Zebul takes orders from him, but why should we serve him? Be loyal to your ancestor Hamor, who founded your clan! 
So I am going to take her into the desert again; there I will win her back with words of love. 
he built the earth on the deep waters; : his love is eternal. 
Another man, who was a disciple, said, “Sir, first let me go back and bury my father.” 
Then I saw another beast, which came up out of the earth. It had two horns like a lamb's horns, and it spoke like a dragon. 
together with 1.5 litres of wine. The smell of these sacrifices is pleasing to the LORD. 
All his descendants will be under a curse. : On Judgement Day God will reward the woman who has never been able to have a child, provided she has not been guilty of adultery. Then she will be happy. 
I can personally testify to his hard work for you and for the people in Laodicea and Hierapolis. 
The descendants of Israel are like the dust — : There are too many of them to be counted. : Let me end my days like one of God's people; : Let me die in peace like the righteous.” 
Let us give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the merciful Father, the God from whom all help comes! 
Then Tobias said to Raphael, “Wait here for me, my friend, while I go in and tell my father. I would like you to travel with me, and I will pay you for the journey.” 
People will answer, ‘It is because they abandoned the LORD their God, who brought their ancestors out of Egypt. They gave their allegiance to other gods and worshipped them. That is why the LORD has brought this disaster on them.’ ”
At that time I saw people in Judah pressing juice from grapes on the Sabbath. Others were loading corn, wine, grapes, figs, and other things on their donkeys and taking them into Jerusalem; I warned them not to sell anything on the Sabbath. 
They all assembled during the Festival of Shelters in the seventh month, in the month of Ethanim. 
Then Peter spoke up. “Lord, if it is really you, order me to come out on the water to you.” 
A fool will believe anything; sensible people watch their step. 
Be determined and confident, for you will be the leader of these people as they occupy this land which I promised their ancestors. 
“When that time comes, you must not do as you have been doing. Until now you have all been worshipping as you please, 
There was another war between the Philistines and Israel, and David and his men went and fought the Philistines. During one of the battles David grew tired. 
Answer me, LORD, in the goodness of your constant love; : in your great compassion turn to me! 
In the 26th year of the reign of King Asa of Judah, Elah son of Baasha became king of Israel, and he ruled in Tirzah for two years. 
Then Abimelech went to Thebez, surrounded that city, and captured it. 
You love him, although you have not seen him, and you believe in him, although you do not now see him. So you rejoice with a great and glorious joy which words cannot express, 
Yet the people of Thebes were carried off into exile. At every street corner their children were beaten to death. Their leading men were carried off in chains and divided among their captors. 
According to the story I heard, a demon killed them. He doesn't harm Sarah, but he kills every man who tries to get near her. I am afraid of this demon. I am an only child, and if I were to die, the sorrow would send my parents to their graves. They haven't even got another son to bury them.” 
The righteous person is a guide to his friend, but the path of the wicked leads them astray. 
I speak no evil as others do; : I have obeyed your command : and have not followed paths of violence. 
For three months the people continued to celebrate in front of the Temple in Jerusalem, and Judith stayed there with them. 
This will please the LORD more than offering him cattle, : more than sacrificing a full-grown bull. 
Give them these instructions, so that no one will find fault with them. 
we wear ourselves out with hard work. When we are cursed, we bless; when we are persecuted, we endure; 
They had spent seven days for the dedication of the altar and then seven more days for the festival. On the last day they had a closing celebration, 
Jesus came back to the Temple; and as he taught, the chief priests and the elders came to him and asked, “What right have you to do these things? Who gave you this right?” 
David fled from the city of Gath and went to a cave near the town of Adullam. When his brothers and the rest of the family heard that he was there, they joined him. 
It was the tenth day of the new year, which was the 25th year after we had been taken into exile and the fourteenth year after Jerusalem was captured. On that day I felt the powerful presence of the LORD, and he carried me away. 
But when they disobeyed him, they suffered heavy losses in many wars and were finally taken away as captives to a foreign country. The temple of their god was levelled to the ground and their cities were occupied by their enemies. 
Heaven and earth are witnesses against you, and so is our God, the Lord of our ancestors, who is punishing us for their sins as well as ours. We can only hope and pray that he will not let these terrible things happen to us today.” 
Greetings from Epaphras, another member of your group and a servant of Christ Jesus. He always prays fervently for you, asking God to make you stand firm, as mature and fully convinced Christians, in complete obedience to God's will. 
So Joshua and his whole army, including the best troops, started out from Gilgal. 
When Moses heard this, he threw himself on the ground and prayed. 
The trumpet sounds, and everyone gets ready. But no one goes off to war, for God's anger will fall on everyone alike. 
When did any of the gods of all these countries ever save their country from our emperor? Then what makes you think the LORD can save Jerusalem?” 
He answered John's messengers, “Go back and tell John what you have seen and heard: the blind can see, the lame can walk, those who suffer from dreaded skin diseases are made clean,  the deaf can hear, the dead are raised to life, and the Good News is preached to the poor.  
You will die in exile, swallowed up by the land of your enemies. 
After the seven months are over, men will be chosen to travel through the land in order to find and bury those bodies remaining on the ground, so that they can make the land clean. 
When he came near Jerusalem, at the place where the road went down the Mount of Olives, the large crowd of his disciples began to thank God and praise him in loud voices for all the great things that they had seen
Esau said, “Let's prepare to leave. I will go ahead of you.” 
The LORD gave Moses 
The LORD sent prophets to warn them to return to him, but the people refused to listen. 
You may eat any clean bird. 
Then Joseph gave orders to embalm his father's body. 
When the voice stopped, there was Jesus all alone. The disciples kept quiet about all this, and told no one at that time anything they had seen. 
But the other woman said, “No! The living child is mine, and the dead one is yours!” : The first woman answered, “No! The dead child is yours, and the living one is mine!” : And so they argued before the king. 
That is true. They were broken off because they did not believe, while you remain in place because you do believe. But do not be proud of it; instead, be afraid. 
What about those eighteen people in Siloam who were killed when the tower fell on them? Do you suppose this proves that they were worse than all the other people living in Jerusalem?  
All you that fear the Lord, trust him, and you will certainly be rewarded. 
They keep the law of their God in their hearts : and never depart from it. 
The LORD judges in favour of the oppressed : and gives them their rights. 
Then the offerings which the people of Judah and Jerusalem bring to the LORD will be pleasing to him, as they used to be in the past. 
Then he took one loaf of bread from the basket of unleavened bread dedicated to the LORD, one loaf made with oil, and one biscuit, and he put them on top of the fat and the right hind leg. 
Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful, : because I come to you for safety. : In the shadow of your wings I find protection : until the raging storms are over. 
Trust in the LORD, you people of Israel. : He helps you and protects you. 
Uzziah was standing there in the Temple beside the incense altar and was holding an incense burner. He became angry with the priests, and immediately a dreaded skin disease broke out on his forehead. 
Fear the Lord, and you will have nothing else to fear. If your trust is in him, you will never act like a coward. 
The news about this spread all over Joppa, and many people believed in the Lord. 
A gracious woman is respected, but a woman without virtue is a disgrace. : Lazy people will never have money, but aggressive people will get rich. 
“But on Mount Zion some will escape, : and it will be a sacred place. : The people of Jacob will possess : the land that is theirs by right. 
Then the priests carried the Covenant Box into the Temple and put it in the Most Holy Place, beneath the winged creatures. 
I, the LORD, will be their God, and a king like my servant David will be their ruler. I have spoken. 
The Babylonians broke in pieces the bronze columns and the carts that were in the Temple, together with the large bronze tank, and they took all the bronze to Babylon. 
The table is to be placed in front of the Covenant Box, and on the table there is always to be the sacred bread offered to me. 
He shall not eat the meat of any animal that has died a natural death or has been killed by wild animals; it will make him unclean. I am the LORD. 
In all, 25,000 Benjaminites were killed that day — all of them brave soldiers. 
Then, when the LORD your God lets you capture the city, kill every man in it. 
He went through those regions and encouraged the people with many messages. Then he came to Achaia, 
The wild donkeys stand on the hilltops : and pant for breath like jackals; : their eyesight fails them : because they have no food. 
But to this very day he has not let you understand what you have experienced. 
At sunset he came to a holy place and camped there. He lay down to sleep, resting his head on a stone. 
tell them what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying to them. This message is for the prince ruling in Jerusalem and for all the people who live there. 
Since he himself is weak in many ways, he is able to be gentle with those who are ignorant and make mistakes. 
“I did obey the LORD,” Saul replied. “I went out as he told me to, brought back King Agag, and killed all the Amalekites. 
A person who speaks on his own authority is trying to gain glory for himself. But he who wants glory for the one who sent him is honest, and there is nothing false in him.  
The LORD made the whole nation stand in awe of Solomon, and he made him more glorious than any other king that had ruled Israel. 
Remember that the Lord will reward everyone, whether slave or free, for the good work they do. 
If you will not listen, : I will cry in secret because of your pride; : I will cry bitterly, and my tears will flow : because the LORD's people have been taken away as captives. 
The angel went on to explain: “The next king of Syria will be an evil man who has no right to be king, but he will come unexpectedly and seize power by trickery. 
Moses and the people of Israel defeated King Sihon when they came out of Egypt. 
Other people had been known to refuse welcome to strangers who came to them, but these people made slaves of those who were their guests and who had shown them kindness. 
“On the fourteenth day of the first month you will begin the celebration of the Passover Festival. For seven days everyone will eat bread made without yeast. 
but in these last days he has spoken to us through his Son. He is the one through whom God created the universe, the one whom God has chosen to possess all things at the end. 
Consider my distress and suffering : and forgive all my sins. 
They had to be handsome, intelligent, well trained, quick to learn, and free from physical defects, so that they would be qualified to serve in the royal court. Ashpenaz was to teach them to read and write the Babylonian language. 
When he crossed the border into Egypt, the Egyptians did see that his wife was beautiful. 
But I show my love to thousands of generations of those who love me and obey my laws. 
Anyone stupid enough to promise to be responsible for a stranger's debts deserves to have his own property held to guarantee payment. 
What more can I say to you! You know me, your servant. 
I have seen fools who looked secure, : but I called down a sudden curse on their homes. 
When God finished speaking to Abraham, he left him. 
You will find no peace anywhere, no place to call your own; the LORD will overwhelm you with anxiety, hopelessness, and despair. 
The crowd answered, “Our Law tells us that the Messiah will live for ever. How, then, can you say that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man?” 
Since the Lord's Spirit fills the entire world, and holds everything in it together, she knows every word that people say. 
even though he always went ahead of you to find a place for you to camp. To show you the way, he went in front of you in a pillar of fire by night and in a pillar of cloud by day. 
Her parents were astounded, but Jesus commanded them not to tell anyone what had happened.
King Nebuchadnezzar sent the following message to the people of all nations, races, and languages in the world: : “Greetings! 
One of the Pharisees there was Nicodemus, the man who had gone to see Jesus before. He said to the others, 
The LORD says, “I have something to say about Israel's neighbours who have ruined the land I gave to my people Israel. I will take those wicked people away from their countries like an uprooted plant, and I will rescue Judah from them. 
But when you entered the good land, you became full and satisfied, and then you grew proud and forgot me. 
The LORD met Balaam, told him what to say, and sent him back to Balak to give him his message. 
“May the LORD bless Boaz!” Naomi exclaimed. “The LORD always keeps his promises to the living and the dead.” And she went on, “That man is a close relative of ours, one of those responsible for taking care of us.” 
But the man did not want to spend another night there, so he and his concubine started on their way, with their servant and two donkeys with pack saddles. It was late in the day when they came near Jebus (that is, Jerusalem), so the servant said to his master, “Why don't we stop and spend the night here in this Jebusite city?” 
He asks, “How could I lie and say I am wrong? : I am fatally wounded, but I am sinless.” 
From the city he took the officer who had been in command of the troops, seven of the king's personal advisers who were still in the city, the commander's assistant, who was in charge of military records, and sixty other important men. 
She went back to Elisha, the prophet, who said to her, “Sell the olive oil and pay all your debts, and there will be enough money left over for you and your sons to live on.” 
Take my yoke and put it on you, and learn from me, because I am gentle and humble in spirit; and you will find rest.  
Then go to the one place where the LORD your God has chosen to be worshipped; and there in his presence eat the tithes of your corn, wine, and olive oil, and the firstborn of your cattle and sheep. Do this so that you may learn to honour the LORD your God always. 
The watchmen patrolling the city saw me. : I asked them, “Have you found my lover?” 
There is still all the Canaanite country, and Mearah (which belonged to the Sidonians), as far as Aphek, at the Amorite border; 
So Judas went off and spoke with the chief priests and the officers of the temple guard about how he could betray Jesus to them. 
Adam was the father of Seth, Seth was the father of Enosh, Enosh the father of Kenan, 
You know that we treated each one of you just as a father treats his own children. 
I know how stubborn these people are. 
Micah had four sons: Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz.  
After Ibzan, Elon from Zebulun led Israel for ten years. 
He hanged the king of Ai from a tree and left his body there until evening. At sunset Joshua gave orders for the body to be removed, and it was thrown down at the entrance to the city gate. They covered it with a huge pile of stones, which is still there today. 
After saying this, Paul took some bread, gave thanks to God before them all, broke it, and began to eat. 
God is my witness that what I say is true — the God whom I serve with all my heart by preaching the Good News about his Son. God knows that I remember you 
I will no longer drive out any of the nations that were still in the land when Joshua died. 
and my teaching and message were not delivered with skilful words of human wisdom, but with convincing proof of the power of God's Spirit. 
He took twelve stones, one for each of the twelve tribes named after the sons of Jacob, the man to whom the LORD had given the name Israel. 
So that they won't perspire, they are to wear linen turbans and linen trousers, but no belt. 
Absalom said, “Now call Hushai, and let us hear what he has to say.” 
Be strong, be courageous, : all you that hope in the LORD.
But the people of the tribe of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites living in Jerusalem, and the Jebusites have continued to live there with the people of Benjamin ever since. 
They ask for revelations from a piece of wood! A stick tells them what they want to know! They have left me. Like a woman who becomes a prostitute, they have given themselves to other gods. 
Now then, if your land is not fit to worship in, come over into the LORD's land, where his Tent is. Claim some land among us. But don't rebel against the LORD or make rebels out of us by building an altar in addition to the altar of the LORD our God. 
“Get a scroll and write on it everything that I have told you about Israel and Judah and all the nations. Write everything that I have told you from the time I first spoke to you, when Josiah was king, up to the present. 
You, my love, excite men : as a mare excites the stallions of Pharaoh's chariots. 
As soon as Jehu had presented the offerings, he said to the guards and officers, “Go in and kill them all; don't let anyone escape!” They went in with drawn swords, killed them all, and dragged the bodies outside. Then they went on into the inner sanctuary of the temple, 
The Egyptians are not gods — they are only human. Their horses are not supernatural. When the LORD acts, the strong nation will crumble, and the weak nation it helped will fall. Both of them will be destroyed. 
and present to the LORD three animals without any defects: a one-year-old male lamb for a burnt offering, a one-year-old ewe lamb for a sin offering, and a ram for a fellowship offering. 
For instance, here is someone who never stops working like a slave, but gets further behind all the time. 
The original inhabitants of the land of Edom were divided into tribes which traced their ancestry to the following descendants of Seir, a Horite: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan. 
May their banquets cause their ruin; : may their sacred feasts cause their downfall. 
Hezekiah sent a message to Sennacherib, who was in Lachish: “I have done wrong; please stop your attack, and I will pay whatever you demand.” The emperor's answer was that Hezekiah should send him ten tonnes of silver and one tonne of gold. 
I was afraid and thought : that he had driven me out of his presence. : But he heard my cry, : when I called to him for help. 
Some will escape to the mountains like doves frightened from the valleys. All of them will moan over their sins.  
This clan was to camp on the north side of the Tent, with Zuriel son of Abihail as chief of the clan. 
It is natural for the wise to do the right thing and for fools to do the wrong thing. 
No one can tear off his outer coat : or pierce the armour he wears. 
Whatever he commands is promptly done; : there are no limits to his power to save. 
You give me strength for the battle : and victory over my enemies. 
So do not be surprised, my brothers and sisters, if the people of the world hate you. 
It is silly to trust people too quickly. If you sin, you are hurting yourself. 
And so God has given those people over to do the filthy things their hearts desire, and they do shameful things with each other. 
Only someone with very little sense, and foolishly misguided, would think things like that. 
The son of Aaron who succeeds him as priest and who goes into the Tent of my presence to serve in the Holy Place is to wear these garments for seven days. 
They were too ashamed to return home. When David heard about what had happened, he sent word that they should stay in Jericho and not return until their beards had grown again. 
He shall marry a virgin, 
The people of Israel left Egypt on the fifteenth day of the first month of the year, the day after the first Passover. Under the LORD's protection they left the city of Rameses in full view of the Egyptians, 
Wise children make their fathers happy. Only fools despise their mothers. 
But even if they did bring up children, I would take them away and not leave one alive. When I abandon these people, terrible things will happen to them.” 
As for this useless servant — throw him outside in the darkness; there he will cry and grind his teeth.’ 
Ahithophel was adviser to the king, and Hushai the Archite was the king's friend and counsellor. 
But if the woman herself is injured, the punishment shall be life for life, 
But now, look. It has been 45 years since the LORD said that to Moses. That was when Israel was going through the desert, and the LORD, as he promised, has kept me alive ever since. Look at me! I am 85 years old 
I always give thanks to my God for you because of the grace he has given you through Christ Jesus. 
“You are that man,” Nathan said to David. “And this is what the LORD God of Israel says: ‘I made you king of Israel and rescued you from Saul. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “tell the ruler of Tyre what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying to him: puffed up with pride, you claim to be a god. You say that like a god you sit on a throne, surrounded by the seas. You may pretend to be a god, but, no, you are mortal, not divine. 
And he led David to them. : The raiders were scattered all over the place, eating, drinking, and celebrating because of the enormous amount of loot they had captured from Philistia and Judah. 
The man who is unfaithful to his wife thinks to himself, “No one will ever know. It's dark in here, and no one sees me. I have nothing to worry about. As for the Most High, he won't even notice.” 
Everything else that King Hezekiah did and his devotion to the LORD are recorded in The Vision of the Prophet Isaiah Son of Amoz and in The History of the Kings of Judah and Israel. 
The king held out the gold sceptre to her, so she stood up and said, 
You may think that they will make you stronger in battle, but it is God who has the power to give victory or defeat, and he will let your enemies defeat you.” 
Jesus knew what they were thinking, so he said to them, “Any country that divides itself into groups which fight each other will not last very long. And any town or family that divides itself into groups which fight each other will fall apart.  
as was Joshua son of Jehozadak. They rebuilt the Lord's holy Temple, destined for eternal fame. 
They were told not to harm the grass or the trees or any other plant; they could harm only the people who did not have the mark of God's seal on their foreheads. 
so he said to him, “Go back to bed; and if he calls you again, say, ‘Speak, LORD, your servant is listening.’ ” So Samuel went back to bed. 
The wicked will not be saved, : for they do not obey your laws. 
Don't condemn me, God. : Tell me! What is the charge against me? 
So he replied, “This means, then, that every teacher of the Law who becomes a disciple in the Kingdom of heaven is like the owner of a house who takes new and old things out of his storeroom.” 
A man shouted from the crowd, “Teacher! I beg you, look at my son — my only son! 
There was so much corn that Joseph stopped measuring it — it was like the sand of the sea. 
You can lose all your self-respect by being reluctant to speak up in the presence of stupidity. 
The reservoir, as big as the bronze tank, was dug while he was in office. 
Put all this food in the hands of Aaron and his sons and tell them to dedicate it to me as a special gift. 
I have seen such things many times and have heard of even more striking examples. 
He said to them, “Friends, I beg you, don't do such a wicked thing! 
This is where the tribes come, : the tribes of Israel, : to give thanks to the LORD : according to his command. 
The LORD gave them this answer: “The Egyptians, the Amorites, the Ammonites, the Philistines, 
Menahem got the money from the rich men of Israel by forcing each one to contribute fifty pieces of silver. So Tiglath Pileser went back to his own country. 
“I have made you known to those you gave me out of the world. They belonged to you, and you gave them to me. They have obeyed your word,  
Jesus left and was going away from the Temple when his disciples came to him to call his attention to its buildings. 
Jesus and his disciples left that place and went on through Galilee. Jesus did not want anyone to know where he was, 
The governor then motioned to Paul to speak, and Paul said, : “I know that you have been a judge over this nation for many years, and so I am happy to defend myself before you. 
All those idols have turned the Israelites away from me, but by my answer I hope to win back their loyalty. 
After this the Lord chose another 72 men and sent them out two by two, to go ahead of him to every town and place where he himself was about to go. 
Sarah was so depressed that she burst into tears and went upstairs determined to hang herself. But when she thought it over, she said to herself, “No, I won't do it! People would insult my father and say, ‘You had only one child, a daughter whom you loved dearly, but she hanged herself because she felt so miserable.’ Such grief would bring my grey-haired father to his grave, and I would be responsible. I won't kill myself; I'll just beg the Lord to let me die. Then I won't have to listen to those insults any longer!” 
LORD, make us prosperous again, : just as the rain brings water back to dry riverbeds. 
King Josiah destroyed all the disgusting idols that were in the territory belonging to the people of Israel, and as long as he lived, he required the people to serve the LORD, the God of their ancestors.
“In my distress, O LORD, I called to you, : and you answered me. : From deep in the world of the dead : I cried for help, and you heard me. 
The Jews in the provinces also organized and defended themselves. They rid themselves of their enemies by killing 75,000 people who hated them. But they did no looting. 
Be on your guard! I have told you everything before the time comes. 
but the LORD will not abandon them to their enemy's power : or let them be condemned when they are on trial. 
But by God's grace I am what I am, and the grace that he gave me was not without effect. On the contrary, I have worked harder than any of the other apostles, although it was not really my own doing, but God's grace working with me. 
They said, “Has the LORD spoken only through Moses? Hasn't he also spoken through us?” The LORD heard what they said. 
But Sihon would not permit the people of Israel to pass through his territory. He gathered his army and went out to Jahaz in the wilderness and attacked the Israelites. 
It's no good making a metal image to worship as a god! 
Her fame continued to spread, and she lived in the house her husband had left her. Before she died, Judith divided her property among her husband's and her own close relatives and set her slave woman free. When she died in Bethulia at the age of 105, she was buried beside her husband, and the people of Israel mourned her death for seven days. 
But now, all who devour you will be devoured, : and all your enemies will be taken away as prisoners. : All who oppress you will be oppressed, : and all who plunder you will be plundered. 
So the priests and the Levites took charge of the silver, the gold, and the utensils, to take them to the Temple in Jerusalem. 
he will make your righteousness shine like the noonday sun. 
Slaves are to submit to their masters and please them in all things. They must not answer them back 
If you feel cheerful, you will look cheerful, although making up proverbs calls for some intense thought.
He had seventy sons, because he had many wives. 
“Make an altar out of acacia wood, for burning incense. 
God said, “Mortal man, eat this scroll; then go and speak to the people of Israel.” 
“Mortal man,” he said, “mark out two roads by which the king of Babylonia can come with his sword. Both of them are to start in the same country. Put up a signpost where the roads fork.  
When an intelligent person brings a lawsuit against a fool, the fool only laughs and becomes loud and abusive. 
The people have defiled the earth by breaking God's laws and by violating the covenant he made to last for ever. 
Then Jehu ordered, “Proclaim a day of worship in honour of Baal!” The proclamation was made, 
In the third year that Jehoiakim was king of Judah, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia attacked Jerusalem and surrounded the city. 
“Come and help me attack Gibeon, because its people have made peace with Joshua and the Israelites.” 
“When you take a census of the people of Israel, each man is to pay me a price for his life, so that no disaster will come on him while the census is being taken. 
When he sees the enemy approaching, he sounds the alarm to warn everyone. 
and as the penalty for his sin he must bring to the LORD a female sheep or goat as an offering. The priest shall offer the sacrifice for the man's sin. 
or oppress anyone or rob anyone. He returns what a borrower gives him as security. He feeds the hungry and gives clothing to the naked. 
where it circled west of Baalah towards the hill country of Edom, went on the north side of Mount Jearim (or Chesalon), down to Beth Shemesh, and on past Timnah. 
And now we are slaves in the land that you gave us, : this fertile land which gives us food. 
and then I said to the emperor, “If Your Majesty is pleased with me and is willing to grant my request, let me go to the land of Judah, to the city where my ancestors are buried, so that I can rebuild the city.” 
After Elon, Abdon son of Hillel from Pirathon led Israel. 
The Throne Room, also called the Hall of Judgement, where Solomon decided cases, had cedar panels from the floor to the rafters. 
Afterwards, Jesus found him in the Temple and said, “Listen, you are well now; so stop sinning or something worse may happen to you.” 
You found the places where the walls of Jerusalem needed repair. You inspected all the houses in Jerusalem and tore some of them down to get stones to repair the city walls. In order to store water, 
At the same time pray also for us, so that God will give us a good opportunity to preach his message about the secret of Christ. For that is why I am now in prison. 
Then the men of Ephraim said to Gideon, “Why didn't you call us when you went to fight the Midianites? Why did you treat us like this?” They complained bitterly about it. 
I am telling you the truth: slaves are never greater than their master, and messengers are never greater than the one who sent them.  
I have always acted justly and fairly. 
But Jesus said to them, “You yourselves give them something to eat.” : They answered, “All we have are five loaves and two fish. Do you want us to go and buy food for this whole crowd?” 
Someone who holds back the truth causes trouble, but one who openly criticizes works for peace. 
Can't you see? His faith and his actions worked together; his faith was made perfect through his actions. 
The Assyrians will be terrified when they hear the LORD's voice and feel the force of his punishment. 
This is the line of Aaron's descendants: Eleazar, Phinehas, Abishua, 
He stretched out what seemed to be a hand and seized me by the hair. Then in this vision God's Spirit lifted me high in the air and took me to Jerusalem. He took me to the inner entrance of the north gate of the Temple, where there was an idol that was an outrage to God. 
Offer the proper grain offering of flour mixed with olive oil: three kilogrammes with each bull, two kilogrammes with the ram, 
Many times I suffered from the heat during the day and from the cold at night. I was not able to sleep. 
Can anyone tell the LORD what to do? : Who can teach him or give him advice? 
“I have seen how they acted, but I will heal them. I will lead them and help them, and I will comfort those who mourn. 
Who can count raindrops or the sand along the shore? : Who can count the days of eternity? 
This was 38 years after we had left Kadesh Barnea. All the fighting men of that generation had died, as the LORD had said they would. 
Jesus said to him, “There was once a man who was giving a great feast to which he invited many people.  
“Even though her sister Oholibah saw this, she was wilder and more of a prostitute than Oholah had ever been. 
They shall wrap it and all its equipment in a fine leather cover and place it on a carrying frame. 
She continued what she had begun as a prostitute in Egypt, where she lost her virginity. From the time she was a young woman, men slept with her and treated her like a prostitute. 
to bind their kings in chains, : their leaders in chains of iron; 
Take an iron pan and set it up like a wall between you and the city. Face the city. It is under siege, and you are the one besieging it. This will be a sign to the nation of Israel. 
to give Aaron and his sons and all the people of Israel the following regulations. 
When Moses had finished giving God's teachings to the people, 
So Hosea married a woman named Gomer, the daughter of Diblaim. After the birth of their first child, a son, 
“Because of what Phinehas has done, I am no longer angry with the people of Israel. He refused to tolerate the worship of any god but me, and that is why I did not destroy them in my anger. 
So they ran throughout the whole region; and wherever they heard he was, they brought to him sick people lying on their mats. 
You people hate anyone who challenges injustice and speaks the whole truth in court. 
because she will be looking for those who are worthy of her, and she will find you wherever you are. She is kind and will be with you in your every thought. 
Israel is the vineyard of the LORD Almighty; : the people of Judah are the vines he planted. : He expected them to do what was good, : but instead they committed murder. : He expected them to do what was right, : but their victims cried out for justice. 
Like them, it also had guardrooms, decorated inner walls, an entrance room, and windows all round. Its total length was 25 metres and its width 12.5 metres. 
I will bring Sisera, the commander of Jabin's army, to fight against you at the River Kishon. He will have his chariots and soldiers, but I will give you victory over him.’ ” 
Then the clan chiefs who were leaders in the tribes of Israel, the same men who were in charge of the census, 
Who is it that feeds the ravens : when they wander about hungry, : when their young cry to me for food?
In the twelfth year of the reign of Joram son of Ahab as king of Israel, Ahaziah son of Jehoram became king of Judah 
Each one, as a good manager of God's different gifts, must use for the good of others the special gift he has received from God. 
Because of my awesome holiness I am like a stone that people stumble over; I am like a trap that will catch the people of the kingdoms of Judah and Israel and the people of Jerusalem. 
David and the people went to the city of Baalah, that is, to Kiriath Jearim, in the territory of Judah, to fetch the Covenant Box of God, which bears the name of the LORD enthroned above the winged creatures. 
And so I am announcing that I will attack the Philistines and wipe them out. I will destroy everyone left living there on the Philistine Plain. 
The LORD replied, “Go down and bring Aaron back with you. But the priests and the people must not cross the boundary to come up to me, or I will punish them.” 
Each cart had four bronze wheels with bronze axles. At the four corners were bronze supports for a basin; the supports were decorated with spiral figures in relief. 
Even the angels, who are so much stronger and mightier than these false teachers, do not accuse them with insults in the presence of the Lord. 
Then he got into the boat with them, and the wind died down. The disciples were completely amazed, 
A person who covers up his foolishness is better than one who keeps his wisdom to himself. 
But Jesus said, “Leave her alone! Why are you bothering her? She has done a fine and beautiful thing for me.  
“The eastern border will follow a line from Hazar Enan to Shepham. 
You do these things I hate, and then you come and stand in my presence, in my own Temple, and say, ‘We are safe!’ 
The two Midianite kings, Zebah and Zalmunna, ran away, but he pursued them and captured them, and caused their whole army to panic. 
“Here is my servant, whom I have chosen, : the one I love, and with whom I am pleased. : I will send my Spirit upon him, : and he will announce my judgement to the nations. 
I am the gate. Whoever comes in by me will be saved; they will come in and go out and find pasture.  
Any of your descendants who survive will have to go to that priest and ask him for money and food, and beg to be allowed to help the priests, in order to have something to eat.”
Day after day I will destroy : the wicked in our land; : I will expel all who are evil : from the city of the LORD.
Two or three who are given God's message should speak, while the others are to judge what they say. 
Nor must you surrender any part of yourselves to sin to be used for wicked purposes. Instead, give yourselves to God, as those who have been brought from death to life, and surrender your whole being to him to be used for righteous purposes. 
Then you said, ‘You will not be admitted to my presence again unless your youngest brother comes with you.’ 
“Join us for a drink and enjoy yourself,” he said to her. 
He shall kill it on the north side of the altar, and the priests shall throw its blood on all four sides of the altar. 
When things are going well, it is hard to tell who your real friends are, but in hard times you can recognize your enemies; 
I asked him for this child, and he gave me what I asked for. 
and they will not escape from darkness. : They will be like trees : whose branches are burnt by fire, : whose blossoms are blown away by the wind. 
I am writing to you, fathers, because you know him who has existed from the beginning. I am writing to you, young people, because you have defeated the Evil One. 
This is the story of Abraham's son Isaac. 
On the first day of the seventh month you are to gather for worship, and no work is to be done. On that day trumpets are to be blown. 
But when they had tied him up to be whipped, Paul said to the officer standing there, “Is it lawful for you to whip a Roman citizen who hasn't even been tried for any crime?” 
It is because of your sins that he doesn't hear you. It is your sins that separate you from God when you try to worship him. 
Through Gershom's brother Eliezer he was related to Shelomith. Eliezer was the father of Rehabiah, who was the father of Jeshiah, the father of Joram, the father of Zichri, the father of Shelomith. 
Now send me a man with skill in engraving, in working gold, silver, bronze, and iron, and in making blue, purple and red cloth. He will work with the craftsmen of Judah and Jerusalem whom my father David selected. 
When I was hungry, they gave me poison; : when I was thirsty, they offered me vinegar. 
The 32,000 chariots they hired and the army of the king of Maacah came and camped near Medeba. The Ammonites too came out from all their cities and got ready to fight. 
The Sovereign LORD will destroy death for ever! He will wipe away the tears from everyone's eyes and take away the disgrace his people have suffered throughout the world. The LORD himself has spoken! 
So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph and saw the baby lying in the manger. 
“When a man is newly married, he is not to be drafted into military service or any other public duty; he is to be excused from duty for one year, so that he can stay at home and make his wife happy. 
I will make some of them priests and Levites. 
If I start to rebuild the system of Law that I tore down, then I show myself to be someone who breaks the Law. 
In spite of all this the people kept sinning; : in spite of his miracles they did not trust him. 
they went to Moses, Eleazar, and the other leaders of the community and said, 
Judas, the traitor, spoke up. “Surely, Teacher, you don't mean me?” he asked. : Jesus answered, “So you say.” 
You saved me from my rebellious people : and maintained my rule over the nations; : people I did not know have now become my subjects. 
the curtains for the enclosure and its posts and bases; the curtain for the entrance of the enclosure and its ropes; the pegs for the Tent; all the equipment to be used in the Tent; 
The LORD will give you many children, many cattle, and abundant crops in the land that he promised your ancestors to give you. 
I am listening to what the LORD God is saying; : he promises peace to us, his own people, : if we do not go back to our foolish ways. 
Jesus told them still another parable: “The Kingdom of heaven is like this. A woman takes some yeast and mixes it with forty litres of flour until the whole batch of dough rises.” 
I will praise you with all my heart, O Lord my God; : I will proclaim your greatness for ever. 
But the people of Judah were not able to drive out the Jebusites, who lived in Jerusalem. The Jebusites still live there with the people of Judah.
He shall kill the lamb and take some of the blood and put it on the lobe of the person's right ear, on the thumb of his right-hand, and on the big toe of his right foot. 
The men close to Paul said to him, “You are insulting God's High Priest!” 
And so, in honour of the name of Jesus : all beings in heaven, on earth, and in the world below : will fall on their knees, 
The LORD made the earth by his power; : by his wisdom he created the world : and stretched out the heavens. 
They took the young man home alive and were greatly comforted. 
The water will be low in the Nile, and the river will gradually dry up. 
Then Abimelech called Abraham and asked, “What have you done to us? What wrong have I done to you to make you bring this disaster on me and my kingdom? No one should ever do what you have done to me. 
When a man is supported by his wife, there is sure to be anger, arrogance, and humiliation. 
But Absalom kept on insisting until David finally let Amnon and all his other sons go with Absalom. : Absalom prepared a banquet fit for a king  
Goliath challenged the Israelites every morning and evening for forty days. 
It is Egypt, rising like the Nile, : like a river flooding its banks. : Egypt said, ‘I will rise and cover the world; : I will destroy cities and the people who live there. 
Look after your sheep and cattle as carefully as you can, 
But when Peter came to Antioch, I opposed him in public, because he was clearly wrong. 
There will be wailing in all the vineyards. All this will take place because I am coming to punish you.” The LORD has spoken. 
Laban said to him, “Let me say this: I have learnt by divination that the LORD has blessed me because of you. 
Then everyone went home, and David went home to spend some time with his family.
Someone may be waiting for you to slip, and if you are not careful, you will stumble over your own words and fall down in front of him.
and on to Gilead and to Kadesh, in Hittite territory. Then they went to Dan, and from Dan they went west to Sidon. 
He struck the water with Elijah's cloak, and said, “Where is the LORD, the God of Elijah?” Then he struck the water again, and it divided, and he walked over to the other side. 
People of Judah, cut off your hair in mourning for the children you love. Make yourselves as bald as vultures, because your children will be taken away from you into exile.
The time is coming when the people of Jerusalem will be told that a scorching wind is blowing in from the desert towards them. It will not be a gentle wind that only blows away the chaff — 
The prophet Elijah sent Jehoram a letter, which read as follows: “The LORD, the God of your ancestor David, condemns you, because you did not follow the example of your father, King Jehoshaphat, or that of your grandfather, King Asa. 
But it is your care, O Father, that steers it; you give it a safe path through the waves of the sea. 
When Joiakim was High Priest, the following priests were the heads of the priestly clans: 
He ordered the officer in charge of Paul to keep him under guard, but to give him some freedom and allow his friends to provide for his needs. 
Jesus was still speaking when a crowd arrived, led by Judas, one of the twelve disciples. He came up to Jesus to kiss him. 
About the tribe of Judah he said: : “LORD, listen to their cry for help; : Unite them again with the other tribes. : Fight for them, LORD, : And help them against their enemies.” 
So Jesus called them to him and spoke to them in parables: “How can Satan drive out Satan?  
Do this not only when they are watching you, because you want to gain their approval; but with all your heart do what God wants, as slaves of Christ. 
“But it will be different for you that forsake me, who ignore Zion, my sacred hill, and worship Gad and Meni, the gods of luck and fate. 
And now we sigh, so great is our desire that our home which comes from heaven should be put on over us; 
“So tell my servant David that I, the LORD Almighty, say to him, ‘I took you from looking after sheep in the fields and made you the ruler of my people Israel. 
and they were terrified of him and afraid of what he might do to Jerusalem and to the Temple of the Lord their God. 
Abraham was 99 years old when he was circumcised, 
Ephraim had a daughter named Sheerah. She built the towns of Upper and Lower Beth Horon, and Uzzen Sheerah. 
Because you were glad, I will let the tribes from the eastern desert conquer you. They will set up their camps in your country and settle there. They will eat the fruit and drink the milk that should have been yours. 
and their hats; the magic charms they wear on their arms and at their waists; 
O LORD, you protect me and save me; : your care has made me great, : and your power has kept me safe. 
They went and stood before Moses, Eleazar the priest, the leaders, and the whole community at the entrance of the Tent of the LORD's presence and said, 
I will forgive all the wrongs you have done, but you will remember them and be too ashamed to open your mouth.” The Sovereign LORD has spoken.
After that, Adam lived another 800 years. He had other children 
When you pray, he will answer you, : and you will keep the vows you made. 
When the enemy besieges her town, she will become so desperate for food that she will secretly eat her newborn child and the afterbirth as well.  
Our ancestors were unfaithful to the LORD our God and did what was displeasing to him. They abandoned him and turned their backs on the place where he dwells. 
and that carelessness will cost him his life. Worms will feed on his decaying body. 
but the land that you are about to enter is a land of mountains and valleys, a land watered by rain. 
You may cut down the other trees and use them in the siege mounds until the city is captured.
For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, and wrong. We were slaves to passions and pleasures of all kinds. We spent our lives in malice and envy; others hated us and we hated them. 
Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were sitting there, facing the tomb. 
“Teacher,” they said to Jesus, “this woman was caught in the very act of committing adultery. 
And we had hoped that he would be the one who was going to set Israel free! Besides all that, this is now the third day since it happened. 
The morning after each feast, Job would get up early and offer sacrifices for each of his children in order to purify them. He always did this because he thought that one of them might have sinned by insulting God unintentionally. 
Be under obligation to no one — the only obligation you have is to love one another. Whoever does this has obeyed the Law. 
The LORD said, “Look how proud the women of Jerusalem are! They walk along with their noses in the air. They are always flirting. They take dainty little steps, and the bracelets on their ankles jingle. 
So Amnon pretended that he was ill and went to bed. : King David went to see him, and Amnon said to him, “Please let Tamar come and make a few cakes here where I can see her, and then serve them to me herself.” 
Then Moses said, “It is the LORD who will give you meat to eat in the evening and as much bread as you want in the morning, because he has heard how much you have complained against him. When you complain against us, you are really complaining against the LORD.” 
If you fast because of your sins, and then go out and commit the same sins over again, what have you gained by going without food? Who do you think is going to listen to your prayers?
But, LORD, I never urged you to bring disaster on them; I did not wish a time of trouble for them. LORD, you know this; you know what I have said. 
I pursue my enemies and catch them; : I do not stop until I destroy them. 
And so the people of Israel settled down among the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. 
We went aboard a ship from Adramyttium, which was ready to leave for the seaports of the province of Asia, and we sailed away. Aristarchus, a Macedonian from Thessalonica, was with us. 
That is why we ourselves boast about you in the churches of God. We boast about the way you continue to endure and believe through all the persecutions and sufferings you are experiencing. 
You will earn the trust and respect of others if you work for good; if you work for evil, you are making a mistake. 
That night they gave him wine to drink, and the elder daughter had intercourse with him. But he was so drunk that he didn't know it. 
Your sons and daughters will be given as slaves to foreigners while you look on. Every day you will strain your eyes, looking in vain for your children to return. 
“When you are living in the towns that the LORD your God gives you, you may hear 
Their enemies know that their own gods are weak, : not mighty like Israel's God. 
The total length of the gateway from the outside wall of the gate to the far side of the last room was 25 metres. 
All nations will serve him, and they will serve his son and his grandson until the time comes for his own nation to fall. Then his nation will serve powerful nations and great kings. 
You are the judge of the whole human race. : Judge in my favour, O LORD; : you know that I am innocent. 
For this curtain make five posts of acacia wood covered with gold and fitted with gold hooks; make five bronze bases for these posts.
so he called all Israel, the elders, leaders, judges, and officers of the people, and said, “I am very old now. 
And because they hate you, they will take away everything you have worked for and leave you stripped naked, exposed like a prostitute. Your lust and your prostitution 
Aaron answered, “Don't be angry with me; you know how determined these people are to do evil. 
Caleb, the brother of Shuhah, had a son, Mehir. Mehir was the father of Eshton, 
They are your own people, whom you brought out of Egypt, that blazing furnace. 
The king said to Moses and Aaron, “What do you mean by making the people neglect their work? Get those slaves back to work! 
Jorah — 112 
Sin and shame go together. Lose your honour, and you will get scorn in its place. 
The LORD your God will make you the leader among the nations and not a follower; you will always prosper and never fail if you obey faithfully all his commands that I am giving you today. 
Son, when you stop learning, you will soon neglect what you already know. 
Then Moses said, “In the land you are about to occupy, people follow the advice of those who practise divination and look for omens, but the LORD your God does not allow you to do this. 
The LORD has made you drowsy, ready to fall into a deep sleep. The prophets should be the eyes of the people, but God has blindfolded them. 
The heart of your law is truth, : and all your righteous judgements are eternal. 
After I had given the deed of purchase to Baruch, I prayed, 
Listen to me, you rulers of Israel, you that hate justice and turn right into wrong. 
Their cows and goats gave plenty of milk; : they had the best sheep, goats, and cattle, : the finest wheat, and the choicest wine. 
I consider that what we suffer at this present time cannot be compared at all with the glory that is going to be revealed to us. 
Omri and his troops left Gibbethon and went and besieged Tirzah. 
Cover it with pure gold inside and out and put a gold border all round it. 
I am one who knows what it is to be punished by God. 
Jesus spoke to the Pharisees again. “I am the light of the world,” he said. “Whoever follows me will have the light of life and will never walk in darkness.” 
in the hope that I myself will be raised from death to life. 
These Israelites do not rely on their weapons for defence but rather on the height of the mountains where they live, since the mountains are not easy to climb. 
The chief priests and the whole Council tried to find some evidence against Jesus in order to put him to death, but they could not find any. 
“No, not seven times,” answered Jesus, “but seventy times seven,  
“Leave it as it is,” Josiah ordered. “His bones are not to be moved.” : So his bones were not moved, neither were those of the prophet who had come from Samaria. 
However, the Israelites did not drive out the people of Geshur and Maacah; they still live in Israel. 
“Go and find Jeremiah and take good care of him. Do not harm him, but do for him whatever he wants.”    
“Why do you not judge for yourselves the right thing to do?  
“How terrible it will be for you, Chorazin! How terrible for you too, Bethsaida! If the miracles which were performed in you had been performed in Tyre and Sidon, the people there would long ago have put on sackcloth and sprinkled ashes on themselves, to show that they had turned from their sins!  
And so, by doing what the LORD requires, you will not be held responsible for the murder. 
They are like a puff of wind; : their days are like a passing shadow. 
Isn't he the carpenter, the son of Mary, and the brother of James, Joseph, Judas, and Simon? Aren't his sisters living here?” And so they rejected him. 
Bring up your children to do what is right. Teach them that they must give to the poor and must always remember to praise God with all sincerity. 
“Fix your eyes on the siege of Jerusalem. Shake your fist at the city and prophesy against it. 
You are the source of all life, : and because of your light we see the light. 
to tell the people of Israel that anyone who sinned and broke any of the LORD's commands without intending to, would have to observe the following rules. 
My cruel persecutors are coming closer, : people who never keep your law. 
The next day, as they were coming back from Bethany, Jesus was hungry. 
At once the angel of the Lord struck Herod down, because he did not give honour to God. He was eaten by worms and died. 
Everyone will hate you because of me.  
“Do not worship the LORD your God in the way that these people worship their gods. 
The shining stars make the night sky lovely, : brilliant ornaments in the Lord's high heavens. 
Even if he is satisfied with this life : and is praised because he is successful, 
May their land be blessed with sun-ripened fruit, : Rich with the best fruits of each season. 
“If foreigners living among you want to keep the Passover, they must observe it according to all the rules and regulations. The same law applies to everyone, whether native or foreigner.” 
I am not worth all the kindness and faithfulness that you have shown me, your servant. I crossed the Jordan with nothing but a walking stick, and now I have come back with these two groups. 
It is stupid to be unkind and insulting. No one's eyes are going to sparkle at a gift that you resent giving. 
The same regulations apply to native-born Israelites and to foreigners who settle among you.” 
My enemies have hunted me down : and completely defeated me. : They have put me in a dark prison, : and I am like those who died long ago. 
There is nothing you know that we don't know. 
Our brothers and sisters, we want you to know the truth about those who have died, so that you will not be sad, as are those who have no hope. 
At your feasts you have harps and tambourines and flutes — and wine. But you don't understand what the LORD is doing, 
The thorn bush answered, ‘If you really want to make me your king, then come and take shelter in my shade. If you don't, fire will blaze out of my thorny branches and burn up the cedars of Lebanon.’ 
Faithful to your promise, you led the people you had rescued; : by your strength you guided them to your sacred land. 
Be determined and confident. Do not be afraid of them. Your God, the LORD himself, will be with you. He will not fail you or abandon you.” 
The LORD gave Moses 
If you do, others will gain the respect that you once had, and you will die young at the hands of merciless people. 
The grapevines and fig trees have withered; : all the fruit trees have wilted and died. : The joy of the people is gone. 
Do not add anything to what I command you, and do not take anything away. Obey the commands of the LORD your God that I have given you. 
The next day the large crowd that had come to the Passover Festival heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. 
They invaded Judah, looted the royal palace, and carried off as prisoners all the king's wives and sons except Ahaziah, his youngest son. 
he sent for him and said, “I made you promise in the LORD's name not to leave Jerusalem. And I warned you that if you ever did, you would certainly die. Did you not agree to it and say that you would obey me? 
The priest shall present all these to the LORD and offer the sin offering and the burnt offering. 
So all the men in Israel assembled with one purpose — to attack the town. 
but what strength there is in his body, : and what power there is in his muscles! 
There were also Gibeon, Ramah, Beeroth, 
The LORD looked down from his holy place on high, : he looked down from heaven to earth. 
The LORD said, “I am going to make you like God to the king, and your brother Aaron will speak to him as your prophet. 
And again, Isaiah says, : “A descendant of Jesse will appear; : he will come to rule the Gentiles, : and they will put their hope in him.” 
The people of Anathoth wanted me killed, and they told me that they would kill me if I kept on proclaiming the LORD's message. 
He died and was buried in Samaria, and his son Jehoash succeeded him as king. 
But Sihon would not let Israel do it. He brought his whole army together, made camp at Jahaz, and attacked Israel. 
When I killed all the firstborn in Egypt, I consecrated as my own the eldest son of each Israelite family and the firstborn of every animal. 
If anyone who even comes near the Tent must die, then we are all as good as dead!”
and of the following clans that lived in Kiriath Jearim: the Ithrites, Puthites, Shumathites, and Mishraites. (The people of the cities of Zorah and Eshtaol were members of these clans.) 
Let them learn, as we have learnt, that there is no God, O Lord, but you. 
The Lord's power was with them, and a great number of people believed and turned to the Lord. 
Why did you bring us out of Egypt into this miserable place where nothing will grow? There's no corn, no figs, no grapes, no pomegranates. There is not even any water to drink!” 
One day three of the thirty leading soldiers went to a rock where David was staying near the cave of Adullam, while a band of Philistines was camping in the Valley of Rephaim. 
Canaan's sons — Sidon, the eldest, and Heth — were the ancestors of the peoples who bear their names. 
After saying this, he was taken up to heaven as they watched him, and a cloud hid him from their sight. 
got into a boat, and went back across the lake towards Capernaum. Night came on, and Jesus still had not come to them. 
But the king will be powerless to help them, and Egypt's protection will end in disaster. 
(These are the religious festivals on which you honour the LORD by gathering together for worship and presenting food offerings, burnt offerings, grain offerings, sacrifices, and wine offerings, as required day by day. 
Rise in your anger, O LORD! : Stand up against the fury of my enemies; : rouse yourself and help me! : Justice is what you demand, 
bringing it with his own hands as a food offering. He shall bring the fat of the animal with its breast and present it as a special gift to the LORD. 
Evil people testify against me : and accuse me of crimes I know nothing about. 
I assure you that on the Judgement Day God will show more mercy to the people of Tyre and Sidon than to you!  
I will stand before you on a rock at Mount Sinai. Strike the rock, and water will come out of it for the people to drink.” Moses did so in the presence of the leaders of Israel. 
You will hear the sound of the trumpets, followed by the playing of oboes, lyres, zithers, and harps; and then all the other instruments will join in. As soon as the music starts, you are to bow down and worship the gold statue that King Nebuchadnezzar has set up. 
while the army of the king of Babylonia was attacking the city. The army was also attacking Lachish and Azekah, the only other fortified cities left in Judah. 
he humbles proud princes : and terrifies great kings.
Indeed he did great things for us; : how happy we were! 
blessed them, and said, “Have many children, so that your descendants will live all over the earth and bring it under their control. I am putting you in charge of the fish, the birds, and all the wild animals. 
Some time later his wife Elizabeth became pregnant and did not leave the house for five months. 
I repeat: it is much harder for a rich person to enter the Kingdom of God than for a camel to go through the eye of a needle.” 
Because the LORD is righteous and good, : he teaches sinners the path they should follow. 
(A man named Jahdai had six sons: Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah, and Shaaph.) 
The LORD changed his mind again and said, “This will not take place either.” 
I wait for the Lord : more eagerly than watchmen wait for the dawn — : than watchmen wait for the dawn. 
The famine grew worse and spread over the whole country, so Joseph opened all the storehouses and sold corn to the Egyptians. 
Bride of the king, listen to what I say — : forget your people and your relatives. 
So the churches were made stronger in the faith and grew in numbers every day. 
Absalom and all the Israelites with him entered Jerusalem, and Ahithophel was with them. 
Then Darius sent the following reply: : “To Tattenai, governor of West Euphrates, Shethar Bozenai, and your fellow-officials in West Euphrates. : “Stay away from the Temple 
He supplies the needs of those who honour him; : he hears their cries and saves them. 
You know that Christ appeared in order to take away sins, and that there is no sin in him. 
When Isaac had been there for some time, King Abimelech looked down from his window and saw Isaac and Rebecca making love. 
(The Israelites set out from the wells that belonged to the people of Jaakan, and went to Moserah. There Aaron died and was buried, and his son Eleazar succeeded him as priest. 
the older women as mothers, and the younger women as sisters, with all purity. 
She got up at once and started walking around. (She was twelve years old.) When this happened, they were completely amazed. 
and asked, “Your Majesty, why are you here?” : David answered, “To buy your threshing place and build an altar for the LORD, in order to stop the epidemic.” 
The commander took him by the hand, led him off by himself, and asked him, “What have you got to tell me?” 
I wish my head were a well of water, : and my eyes a fountain of tears, : so that I could cry day and night : for my people who have been killed. 
and they are wrong about judgement, because the ruler of this world has already been judged. 
When the LORD comes to shake the earth, people will hide in holes and caves in the rocky hills to try to escape from his anger and to hide from his power and glory. 
“The Kingdom of heaven is like this. A man happens to find a treasure hidden in a field. He covers it up again, and is so happy that he goes and sells everything he has, and then goes back and buys that field. 
Then the LORD said to Cain, “Why are you angry? Why that scowl on your face? 
I assure you that John the Baptist is greater than anyone who has ever lived. But the one who is least in the Kingdom of heaven is greater than John.  
The LORD told Moses to warn the people of Israel about their uncleanness, so that they would not defile the Tent of his presence, which was in the middle of the camp. If they did, they would be killed. 
The words of the wicked are murderous, but the words of the righteous rescue those who are threatened. 
Jeroboam's wife went back to Tirzah. Just as she entered her home, the child died. 
Listen to what I, the LORD, say! I am against the prophets who tell their dreams that are full of lies. They tell these dreams and lead my people astray with their lies and their boasting. I did not send them or order them to go, and they are of no help at all to the people. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
If you do, your barns will be filled with grain, and you will have too much wine to be able to store it all. 
So Jesse sent for him. He was a handsome, healthy young man, and his eyes sparkled. The LORD said to Samuel, “This is the one — anoint him!” 
They were all completely amazed! Full of fear, they praised God, saying, “What marvellous things we have seen today!” 
If you become angry, do not let your anger lead you into sin, and do not stay angry all day. 
Death to its lying prophets — : what fools they are! : Death to its soldiers — : how terrified they are! 
Japhlet also had three sons: Pasach, Bimhal, and Ashvath. 
Solomon did not have these bronze objects weighed, because there were too many of them, and so their weight was never determined. 
And the streets will again be full of boys and girls playing. 
“You and Aaron are to take a census of the people of Israel by clans and families. List the names of all the men 
Abraham looked round and saw a ram caught in a bush by its horns. He went and got it and offered it as a burnt offering instead of his son. 
“Come and see,” he answered. (It was then about four o'clock in the afternoon.) So they went with him and saw where he lived, and spent the rest of that day with him. 
Because you have kept my command to endure, I will also keep you safe from the time of trouble which is coming upon the world to test all the people on earth.  
Instead, store up riches for yourselves in heaven, where moths and rust cannot destroy, and robbers cannot break in and steal.  
Tell me this one thing: did you receive God's Spirit by doing what the Law requires or by hearing the gospel and believing it? 
He provides food for those who honour him; : he never forgets his covenant. 
Saul said to the LORD, the God of Israel, “LORD, why have you not answered me today? LORD, God of Israel, answer me by the sacred stones. If the guilt is Jonathan's or mine, answer by the Urim; but if it belongs to your people Israel, answer by the Thummim.” The answer indicated Jonathan and Saul; and the people were cleared. 
Potiphar was pleased with him and made him his personal servant; so he put him in charge of his house and everything he owned. 
The valley was full of tar pits, and when the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah tried to run away from the battle, they fell into the pits; but the other three kings escaped to the mountains. 
This made the king very sad, but he could not refuse her because of the vows he had made in front of all his guests. 
I call to the LORD, : and he saves me from my enemies. : Praise the LORD! 
Well then, the Lord himself will give you a sign: a young woman who is pregnant will have a son and will name him ‘Immanuel.’  
David would kill everyone, men and women, so that no one could go back to Gath and report what he and his men had really done. This is what David did the whole time he lived in Philistia. 
The Benjaminites came out to fight and were led away from the city. As before, they began killing some Israelites in the open country on the road to Bethel and on the road to Gibeah. They killed about thirty Israelites. 
the world of the dead, : a woman without children, : dry ground that needs rain, : and a fire burning out of control. 
But this is nonsense. Look at what happens in the world: sometimes the righteous get the punishment of the wicked, and the wicked get the reward of the righteous. I say it is useless. 
And if God's glory is revealed through him, then God will reveal the glory of the Son of Man in himself, and he will do so at once.  
“The letter which you sent has been translated and read to me. 
Jesus, however, was aware of their evil plan, and so he said, “You hypocrites! Why are you trying to trap me?  
It is painful to listen to them insult each other, and such blustering can lead to violence. 
I know what those prophets have said who speak lies in my name and claim that I have given them my messages in their dreams. 
Soon the enemy will cut them down and trample them like corn on a threshing place. I, the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, have spoken.” 
Engage in conversation with intelligent people, and let the Law of the Most High be the topic of your discussions. 
So all the people of Israel, from one end of the country to the other, knew that Samuel was indeed a prophet of the LORD. 
Only now am I making them happen; : nothing like this took place in the past. : If it had, you would claim that you knew all about it. 
The Lord is more pleased with those who obey him : than with all the choice meat on the altar, : or with all the most fragrant sacrifices. 
For Christ has brought the Law to an end, so that everyone who believes is put right with God. 
“Divide this land among your tribes; 
They took some of the loot they captured in battle and dedicated it for use in the Temple. 
The LORD placed his throne in heaven; : he is king over all. 
By the seventh month the people of Israel were all settled in their towns. Then they all assembled in Jerusalem, 
It is not what goes into a person's mouth that makes him ritually unclean; rather, what comes out of it makes him unclean.” 
However, he may be put to death only if two or more witnesses testify against him; he is not to be put to death if there is only one witness. 
The Assyrian official learnt that the emperor had left Lachish and was fighting against the nearby city of Libnah; so he went there to consult him. 
The LORD rejected all the Israelites, punishing them and handing them over to cruel enemies until at last he had banished them from his sight. 
because they are God's servants working for your own good. But if you do evil, then be afraid of them, because their power to punish is real. They are God's servants and carry out God's punishment on those who do evil. 
I asked her, ‘Who is your father?’ And she answered, ‘My father is Bethuel son of Nahor and Milcah.’ Then I put the ring in her nose and the bracelets on her arms. 
No one who gossips can be trusted with a secret, but you can put confidence in someone who is trustworthy. 
Laban said, “Yes, indeed, you are my own flesh and blood.” Jacob stayed there a whole month. 
Jesus took the bread, gave thanks to God, and distributed it to the people who were sitting there. He did the same with the fish, and they all had as much as they wanted. 
When he saw them, he said, “This is God's camp”; so he called the place Mahanaim. 
When he appeared before King Ahab, the king asked him, “Micaiah, should King Jehoshaphat and I go and attack Ramoth, or not?” : “Attack!” Micaiah answered. “Of course you'll win. The LORD will give you victory.” 
Honest words are convincing, : but you are talking nonsense. 
Hurry and come, : all you surrounding nations, : and gather in the valley.’ ” : Send down, O LORD, your army to attack them. 
But the servant asked, “What if the young woman will not leave home to come with me to this land? Shall I send your son back to the land you came from?” 
He must be holy and must not disgrace my name. He offers food offerings to me, and he must be holy. 
Then one night she accidentally rolled over on her baby and smothered it. 
We have sown spiritual seed among you. Is it too much if we reap material benefits from you? 
For Christ did not please himself. Instead, as the scripture says, “The insults which are hurled at you have fallen on me.” 
He let them go, and the evil spirits went out of the man and entered the pigs. The whole herd — about 2,000 pigs in all — rushed down the side of the cliff into the lake and was drowned. 
So let us not become tired of doing good; for if we do not give up, the time will come when we will reap the harvest. 
When the Egyptians began to be hungry, they cried out to the king for food. So he ordered them to go to Joseph and do what he told them. 
May their land be filled with all that is good, : Blessed by the goodness of the LORD, : Who spoke from the burning bush. : May these blessings come to the tribe of Joseph, : Because he was the leader among his brothers. 
Not even to his holy angels has the Lord given power : to describe all his mighty deeds, : even though he has given them power : to stand unharmed in his glorious presence. 
God also caused Rezon son of Eliada to turn against Solomon. Rezon had fled from his master, King Hadadezer of Zobah, 
Serug, Nahor, Terah, 
At the entrance of the Tent of my presence they are to eat it along with the bread left in the basket. 
A good person brings good out of the treasure of good things in his heart; a bad person brings bad out of his treasure of bad things. For the mouth speaks what the heart is full of. 
For the same one who said, “Do not commit adultery,” also said, “Do not commit murder.” Even if you do not commit adultery, you have become a lawbreaker if you commit murder. 
Bani — 642 
His power has brought us victory — : his mighty power in battle!” 
As I was looking at the four creatures, I saw four wheels touching the ground, one beside each of them.  
And even though he loved Hannah very much he would give her only one share, because the LORD had kept her from having children. 
Moses left the king and prayed to the LORD, 
While they were still a long way off they saw Job, but did not recognize him. When they did, they began to weep and wail, tearing their clothes in grief and throwing dust into the air and on their heads. 
When the people of Israel heard of Solomon's decision, they were all filled with deep respect for him, because they knew then that God had given him the wisdom to settle disputes fairly.
Respect everyone, love your fellow-believers, honour God, and respect the Emperor. 
You will show your faithfulness and constant love to your people, the descendants of Abraham and of Jacob, as you promised our ancestors long ago.
where he looked after his flocks, : and he made him king of Israel, : the shepherd of the people of God. 
“Then the LORD told me 
So then, brothers and sisters, choose seven men among you who are known to be full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom, and we will put them in charge of this matter. 
They discovered that the Law, which the LORD gave through Moses, ordered the people of Israel to live in temporary shelters during the Festival of Shelters. 
As the fighting continued between David's forces and the forces loyal to Saul's family, Abner became more and more powerful among Saul's followers. 
Cities that are now full of people will be destroyed, and the country will be made a wilderness. Then they will know that I am the LORD.” 
The tribes of Reuben and Gad had a lot of livestock. When they saw how suitable the land of Jazer and Gilead was for cattle, 
Moses did what the LORD had commanded. They went up Mount Hor in the sight of the whole community, 
Three days after Festus arrived in the province, he went from Caesarea to Jerusalem, 
They took away everything that was made of gold or silver, including the small bowls and the pans used for carrying live coals. 
They make proud and stupid statements, and use immoral bodily lusts to trap those who are just beginning to escape from among people who live in error. 
Cover its top, all four sides, and its projections with pure gold, and put a gold border round it. 
And the LORD's power began to strengthen him while he was between Zorah and Eshtaol in the Camp of Dan.
Even so, many will follow their immoral ways; and because of what they do, others will speak evil of the Way of truth. 
but the seventh day is a day of rest dedicated to me. On that day no one is to work — neither you, your children, your slaves, your animals, nor the foreigners who live in your country. 
The perfume of myrrh and aloes is on your clothes; : musicians entertain you in palaces decorated with ivory. 
The Lord is always aware of what people do; there is no way to hide from him.  
Beyond the rivers of Ethiopia there is a land where the sound of wings is heard. 
People who hurt others will be hurt by their own actions and will have no idea why. 
An intelligent person aims at wise action, but a fool starts off in many directions. 
On the fifth day offer nine young bulls, two rams, and fourteen one-year-old male lambs, all without any defects. 
On the eighth day, the child shall be circumcised. 
No one can hide where I cannot see him. Do you not know that I am everywhere in heaven and on earth? 
Death has come in through our windows : and entered our palaces; : it has cut down the children in the streets : and the young men in the market places. 
A worthless bunch of nameless nobodies! : They were driven out of the land. 
The people of Judah heard what Holofernes, the commander of King Nebuchadnezzar's armies, had done to the other nations. They heard how he had looted and destroyed all their temples, 
When the crowds heard about it, they followed him. He welcomed them, spoke to them about the Kingdom of God, and healed those who needed it. 
But when the tenants saw him, they said to one another, ‘This is the owner's son. Let's kill him, and his property will be ours!’  
“As for you, how fortunate you are! Your eyes see and your ears hear.  
he is excused from helping his father or mother.  
And so I am filled with gladness, : and my words are full of joy. : And I, mortal though I am, : will rest assured in hope, 
This, then, is how we will know that we belong to the truth; this is how we will be confident in God's presence. 
But Zadok the priest, Benaiah son of Jehoiada, Nathan the prophet, Shimei, Rei, and David's bodyguard were not on Adonijah's side. 
Then he went and talked to the woman, and he liked her. 
I will bring terror on you from every side. You will all run away. Each one will run for his life, and there will be no one to bring your troops together again. 
Come, let us bow down and worship him; : let us kneel before the LORD, our Maker! 
O LORD, how I hate those who hate you! : How I despise those who rebel against you! 
Then if the tree bears figs next year, so much the better; if not, then you can have it cut down.’ ” 
At that time I will choose as king a righteous descendant of David. That king will do what is right and just throughout the land. 
So the servants followed Absalom's instructions and killed Amnon. All the rest of David's sons mounted their mules and fled. 
It is much harder for a rich person to enter the Kingdom of God than for a camel to go through the eye of a needle.” 
And so the Lord made him a solemn promise that his descendants would be a blessing to the world; that their number would be countless, like the dust of the earth; that they would be honoured more than any other people on earth; and that their land would extend from sea to sea, from the Euphrates to the ends of the earth. 
The women went to Peter and his friends and gave them a brief account of all they had been told. 
The descendants of Joseph, the tribes of Ephraim and West Manasseh, received this land as their possession. 
North of Sela, the Edomite border ran through Akrabbim Pass.
Aaron is to wear this robe when he serves as priest. When he comes into my presence in the Holy Place or when he leaves it, the sound of the bells will be heard, and he will not be killed. 
When Judith had finished her prayer to the God of Israel, 
The law of the LORD is perfect; : it gives new strength. : The commands of the LORD are trustworthy, : giving wisdom to those who lack it. 
The water became deeper, and the boat drifted on the surface. 
When King Jehoshaphat of Judah became rich and famous, he arranged a marriage between a member of his family and the family of King Ahab of Israel. 
So he called them all together with others whose work was like theirs and said to them, “Men, you know that our prosperity comes from this work. 
fire came down on their followers : and burnt up those wicked people. 
These four were descendants of the giants of Gath, and they were killed by David and his men.
But before you make such a promise, be prepared to keep it. Don't try to test the Lord's patience. 
This is a message about Edom. : Someone calls to me from Edom, “Sentry, how soon will the night be over? Tell me how soon it will end.” 
The promises of the LORD can be trusted; : they are as genuine as silver : refined seven times in the furnace. 
Then Uzziah said, “Judith, my dear, the Most High God has blessed you more than any other woman on earth. How worthy of praise is the Lord God who created heaven and earth! He guided you as you cut off the head of our deadliest enemy. 
Send the people away, and let them go to the nearby farms and villages in order to buy themselves something to eat.” 
She said to him, “Why have you done such a wrong to God's people? You have not allowed your own son to return from exile, and so you have condemned yourself by what you have just said. 
King Ahaziah of Israel fell off the balcony on the roof of his palace in Samaria and was seriously injured. So he sent some messengers to consult Baalzebub, the god of the Philistine city of Ekron, in order to find out whether or not he would recover. 
He and his wife, and his sons and their wives, went into the boat to escape the flood. 
to proclaim your constant love every morning : and your faithfulness every night, 
Those who plan evil are in for a rude surprise, but those who work for good will find happiness. 
Be careful when somebody offers you advice. Find out first what his interest in the matter is, because you can be sure that he is thinking primarily of himself. Why should he come out on top instead of you?  
Let us be thankful, then, because we receive a kingdom that cannot be shaken. Let us be grateful and worship God in a way that will please him, with reverence and awe; 
from all their suffering. It was not an angel, but the LORD himself who saved them. In his love and compassion he rescued them. He had always taken care of them in the past, 
So Peter spoke up and said to Jesus, “Lord, how good it is that we are here! If you wish, I will make three tents here, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.” 
In three days the king will release you — and have your head cut off! Then he will hang your body on a pole, and the birds will eat your flesh.” 
“Seven times seventy years is the length of time God has set for freeing your people and your holy city from sin and evil. Sin will be forgiven and eternal justice established, so that the vision and the prophecy will come true, and the holy Temple will be rededicated. 
There was a circular frame on top for the basin. It projected upwards 45 centimetres from the top of the cart and eighteen centimetres down into it. It had carvings round it. 
This is a true saying, to be completely accepted and believed: Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. I am the worst of them, 
When Aaron had finished all the sacrifices, he raised his hands over the people and blessed them, and then stepped down. 
The grain offering is to be presented twice a day and burnt completely. 
So be generous; but also be willing to receive from others. Enjoy yourself, for you will not find any pleasures in the world of the dead. 
Instead, he led them in a roundabout way through the desert towards the Red Sea. The Israelites were armed for battle. 
Towards evening he is to wash himself, and at sunset he may come back into camp. 
Promise me, women of Jerusalem, : that if you find my lover, : you will tell him I am weak from passion. 
I, the LORD, the God of Israel, warn you not to let yourselves be deceived by the prophets who live among you or by any others who claim they can predict the future. Do not pay any attention to their dreams. 
Araunah gave it all to the king and said to him, “May the LORD your God accept your offering.” 
May the land enjoy prosperity; : may it experience righteousness. 
His servants said to him, “We know that an evil spirit sent by God is tormenting you. 
“I will give you peace in your land, and you will sleep without being afraid of anyone. I will get rid of the dangerous animals in the land, and there will be no more war there. 
Kedesh, Hazor, Ithnan, 
Then he returned and found the three disciples asleep. He said to Peter, “Simon, are you asleep? Weren't you able to stay awake even for one hour?”  
“Once and for all I have promised by my holy name: : I will never lie to David. 
Herod gave orders to search for him, but they could not find him. So he had the guards questioned and ordered them to be put to death. : After this, Herod left Judea and spent some time in Caesarea. 
There was a 22 centimetre band round the top of each cart; its supports and the panels were of one piece with the cart. 
The prophets who spoke long ago, before my time and yours, predicted that war, starvation, and disease would come to many nations and powerful kingdoms. 
So he called in Jehoiada and the other priests and asked them, “Why aren't you repairing the Temple? From now on you are not to keep the money you receive; you must hand it over, so that the repairs can be made.” 
May God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peace. 
David gave Solomon the plans for all the temple buildings, for the storerooms and all the other rooms, and for the Most Holy Place, where sins are forgiven. 
Bethel and Ai — 223 
Peter spoke up and said to Jesus, “I will never leave you, even though all the rest do!” 
to say to Zedekiah, “The Egyptian army is on its way to help you, but it will return home. 
His wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz; his army commander was his cousin Abner, the son of his uncle Ner. 
Joshua conquered the whole land. He defeated the kings of the hill country, the eastern slopes, and the western foothills, as well as those of the dry country in the south. He spared no one; everyone was put to death. This was what the LORD God of Israel had commanded. 
and was buried in the rock tomb which he had carved out for himself in David's City. They used spices and perfumed oils to prepare his body for burial, and they built a huge bonfire to mourn his death.
but their hope dies beside dry streams. 
There you will look for the LORD your God, and if you search for him with all your heart, you will find him. 
David saw that Saul was out to kill him. : David was at Horesh, in the wilderness near Ziph. 
I am bringing the day of victory near — : it is not far away at all. : My triumph will not be delayed. : I will save Jerusalem : and bring honour to Israel there.”
But God has shown us how much he loves us — it was while we were still sinners that Christ died for us! 
He replied, “Do you think you and the king are the only ones the emperor sent me to say all these things to? No, I am also talking to the people who are sitting on the wall, who will have to eat their excrement and drink their urine, just as you will.” 
“The kind of fasting I want is this: remove the chains of oppression and the yoke of injustice, and let the oppressed go free. 
Meanwhile, the official who had gone to fetch Micaiah said to him, “All the other prophets have prophesied success for the king, and you had better do the same.” 
“If you have ears, then, listen to what the Spirit says to the churches! 
Abishai's brother Joab was commander of the army; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was in charge of the records; 
then all the armies of the nations attacking the city of God's altar, all their weapons and equipment — everything — will vanish like a dream, like something imagined in the night. 
David did what the LORD had commanded, and was able to drive the Philistines back from Geba all the way to Gezer.
He left because the land where he and Jacob were living was not able to support them; they had too much livestock and could no longer stay together. 
They were so poor and hungry : that they would gnaw dry roots — : at night, in wild, desolate places. 
The man who collected the ashes must wash his clothes, but he remains unclean until evening. This regulation is valid for all time to come, both for the Israelites and for the foreigners living among them. 
If I did not, how could I then face God? : What could I say when God came to judge me? 
“What did the man look like?” the king asked. 
Zebulun: 50,000 loyal and reliable men ready to fight, trained to use all kinds of weapons; 
He remembered Raphael's instructions, so he took the fish's liver and heart out of the bag where he had been keeping them. Then he placed them on the burning incense. 
Shema was the father of Raham and the grandfather of Jorkeam. Rekem, Shema's brother, was the father of Shammai, 
Doesn't God live in the highest heavens : and look down on the stars, even though they are high? 
Caleb said, “I will give my daughter Achsah in marriage to the man who succeeds in capturing Kiriath Sepher.” 
This solemn warning will become a funeral song. The women of the nations will sing it to mourn for Egypt and all its people. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken.” 
She touched his cloak, and her bleeding stopped at once; and she had the feeling inside herself that she was healed of her trouble. 
And in my vision I saw the horses and their riders: they had breastplates red as fire, blue as sapphire, and yellow as sulphur. The horses' heads were like lions' heads, and from their mouths came out fire, smoke, and sulphur. 
Moab's doom approaches; : its ruin is coming soon. 
she must do everything that she vowed or promised unless her husband raises an objection when he hears about it. 
When Reu was 32 years old, he had a son, Serug; 
Turn to me and have mercy on me : as you do on all those who love you. 
But I couldn't believe it until I had come and seen it all for myself. But I didn't hear even half of it; your wisdom and wealth are much greater than what I was told. 
When the people of Israel finished dividing up the land, they gave Joshua son of Nun a part of the land as his own. 
Considering the present distress, I think it is better for a man to stay as he is. 
They will all be terrified and overcome with pain, like the pain of a woman in labour. They will look at each other in fear, and their faces will burn with shame. 
Your leaders will be blown away by the wind, : your allies taken as prisoners of war, : your city disgraced and put to shame : because of all the evil you have done. 
You let us fall into a trap : and placed heavy burdens on our backs. 
No poison is deadlier than the poison of a snake, and no anger is deadlier than the anger of a woman. 
The Israelites did this, some gathering more, others less. 
The disciples decided that they would each send as much as they could to help their fellow-believers who lived in Judea. 
The people of Gaza found out that Samson was there, so they surrounded the place and waited for him all night long at the city gate. They were quiet all night, thinking to themselves, “We'll wait until daybreak, and then we'll kill him.” 
It was I who covered the sea with clouds : and wrapped it in darkness. 
He has forced me to live in the stagnant darkness of death. 
Rachel said to her father, “Do not be angry with me, sir, but I am not able to stand up in your presence; I am having my monthly period.” Laban searched but did not find his household gods. 
At the same time I gave you instructions for everything else you were to do. 
O God, be kind to Zion and help her; : rebuild the walls of Jerusalem. 
“If you lend money to any of my people who are poor, do not act like a moneylender and require him to pay interest. 
When Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan and grandson of Saul, arrived, he bowed down before David in respect. David said, “Mephibosheth,” and he answered, “At your service, sir.” 
While working with the Jews, I live like a Jew in order to win them; and even though I myself am not subject to the Law of Moses, I live as though I were when working with those who are, in order to win them. 
Abraham believed and hoped, even when there was no reason for hoping, and so became “the father of many nations.” Just as the scripture says, “Your descendants will be as many as the stars.” 
I said, “O God, I am too ashamed to raise my head in your presence. Our sins pile up, high above our heads; they reach as high as the heavens. 
A finely woven belt made of the same materials is to be attached to the ephod so as to form one piece with it. 
Make each piece the same size, twelve metres long and two metres wide. 
But if in the priest's opinion the sore has not spread and healthy hairs are growing in it, the sore has healed, and the priest shall pronounce him ritually clean. 
When we give to the poor, the Lord considers it as precious as a valuable ring. Human kindness is as precious to him as life itself. 
How wonderful it is, how pleasant, : for God's people to live together in harmony! 
Sir, I am a religious woman; I worship the God of Heaven day and night. I will stay here in your camp, and each night I will go out into the valley to pray to God, and he will tell me when the Israelites have sinned. 
Your old fears of foreign tax collectors and spies will be only a memory. 
Wisdom does more good than weapons, but one sinner can undo a lot of good.
Jesus answered them, “Go and tell that fox: ‘I am driving out demons and performing cures today and tomorrow, and on the third day I shall finish my work.’  
Zechariah asked for a writing tablet and wrote, “His name is John.” How surprised they all were! 
When you give a feast, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, and the blind;  
So, on the west side of the Jordan they set aside Kedesh in Galilee, in the hill country of Naphtali; Shechem, in the hill country of Ephraim; and Hebron, in the hill country of Judah. 
He makes me sure-footed as a deer; : he keeps me safe on the mountains. 
It is only the spirit within people that knows all about them; in the same way, only God's Spirit knows all about God. 
but do it with gentleness and respect. Keep your conscience clear, so that when you are insulted, those who speak evil of your good conduct as followers of Christ will be ashamed of what they say. 
Present a burnt offering to the LORD, a smell pleasing to him: one young bull, one ram, and seven one-year-old male lambs, all without any defects. 
King Jeroboam of Israel still did not turn from his evil ways, but continued to choose priests from ordinary families to serve at the altars he had built. He ordained as priest anyone who wanted to be one. 
Those who are godless keep on being angry, : and even when punished, they don't pray for help. 
Then she went to the people of the city with her plan, and they cut off Sheba's head and threw it over the wall to Joab. He blew the trumpet as a signal for his men to leave the city, and they went back home. And Joab returned to Jerusalem to the king. 
I will bring ruthless enemies to attack you. They will destroy all the beautiful things you have acquired by your skill and wisdom. 
If you cannot get rid of your anger, you have no hope of forgiveness — you are only a human being. 
I have no peace, no rest, : and my troubles never end.
but when he got over Amnon's death, he was filled with longing for his son Absalom.
But I was determined to have her, and I found her by keeping myself free from sin. I have grown in Wisdom since first I found her, and I will never be without her. 
“The brave soldiers have fallen, : their weapons abandoned and useless.”
If you keep on refusing, then I will bring locusts into your country tomorrow. 
Then they went on. Micah saw that they were too strong for him, so he turned and went back home. 
No farmer goes on constantly ploughing his fields and getting them ready for sowing. 
But he was opposed by some men who were members of the synagogue of the Freedmen (as it was called), which included Jews from Cyrene and Alexandria. They and other Jews from the provinces of Cilicia and Asia started arguing with Stephen. 
In this way you shall set the fiftieth year apart and proclaim freedom to all the inhabitants of the land. During this year all property that has been sold shall be restored to the original owner or his descendants, and anyone who has been sold as a slave shall return to his family. 
When you die, birds and wild animals will come and eat your bodies, and there will be no one to scare them off. 
On Saturday evening we gathered together for the fellowship meal. Paul spoke to the people and kept on speaking until midnight, since he was going to leave the next day. 
On the other hand, someone else may be very poor and not up to his task. He may be slow, and he may need help, but the Lord is pleased with him and pulls him out of his bad situation. 
And because he is himself weak, he must offer sacrifices not only for the sins of the people but also for his own sins. 
They approached Moses and said, “First, allow us to build stone enclosures here for our sheep and fortified towns for our dependants. 
But they still did not give up the sins into which King Jeroboam had led Israel, but kept on committing them; and the image of the goddess Asherah remained in Samaria. 
The rest of the grain offering belongs to the priests; it is very holy, since it is taken from the food offered to the LORD. 
Eleazar the priest said to the men who had returned from battle, “These are the regulations that the LORD has given to Moses. 
Then God said, “And now we will make human beings; they will be like us and resemble us. They will have power over the fish, the birds, and all animals, domestic and wild, large and small.” 
Moses said to Aaron, “Take a jar, put two litres of manna in it, and place it in the LORD's presence to be kept for our descendants.” 
He sets the time for birth and the time for death, : the time for planting and the time for pulling up, 
I answered, “Our leaders are stupid; : they do not ask the LORD for guidance. : This is why they have failed, : and our people have been scattered. 
Moses concluded by saying, “All your officials will come to me and bow down before me, and they will beg me to take all my people and go away. After that, I will leave.” Then in great anger Moses left the king. 
These are the men, leaders within their tribes, who were chosen from the community for this work: :  :  : Reuben : Elizur son of Shedeur : Simeon : Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai : Judah : Nahshon son of Amminadab : Issachar : Nethanel son of Zuar : Zebulun : Eliab son of Helon : Ephraim : Elishama son of Ammihud : Manasseh : Gamaliel son of Pedahzur : Benjamin : Abidan son of Gideoni : Dan : Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai : Asher : Pagiel son of Ochran : Gad : Eliasaph son of Deuel : Naphtali : Ahira son of Enan 
And there is another reason why we always give thanks to God. When we brought you God's message, you heard it and accepted it, not as a message from human beings but as God's message, which indeed it is. For God is at work in you who believe. 
If someone finds that the LORD has sent mildew on his house, then he must go and tell the priest about it. 
Anyone can give advice, but some people do so only in their own interest. 
Joseph answered, “These are my sons, whom God has given me here in Egypt.” : Jacob said, “Bring them to me so that I may bless them.” 
God said to him, “Your name is Jacob, but from now on it will be Israel.” So God named him Israel. 
God sent me ahead of you to rescue you in this amazing way and to make sure that you and your descendants survive. 
The LORD said to Moses, 
They answered, “Saul wanted to destroy us and leave none of us alive anywhere in Israel. 
God said to Noah, “I have decided to put an end to the whole human race. I will destroy them completely, because the world is full of their violent deeds. 
For you have broken the yoke that burdened them : and the rod that beat their shoulders. : You have defeated the nation : that oppressed and exploited your people, : just as you defeated the army of Midian long ago. 
The LORD spoke to me. 
“I hear the people of Israel say in grief, : ‘LORD, we were like an untamed animal, : but you taught us to obey. : Bring us back; : we are ready to return to you, : the LORD our God. 
You snakes — how can you say good things when you are evil? For the mouth speaks what the heart is full of.  
Edom has been independent of Judah ever since. During this same period, the city of Libnah also revolted, because Jehoram had abandoned the LORD, the God of his ancestors. 
So it was not really you who sent me here, but God. He has made me the king's highest official. I am in charge of his whole country; I am the ruler of all Egypt. 
In times of trouble his mercy is as welcome as rain after a long drought.
Then I will smash them like jars against one another, old and young alike. No pity, compassion, or mercy will stop me from killing them.” 
In order to keep the Ephraimites from escaping, the Gileadites captured the places where the Jordan could be crossed. When any Ephraimite who was trying to escape asked permission to cross, the men of Gilead would ask, “Are you an Ephraimite?” If he said, “No,” 
For Abraham was waiting for the city which God has designed and built, the city with permanent foundations. 
Go back home, for I am too old to get married again. Even if I thought there was still hope, and so got married tonight and had sons, 
killing all the men and women and taking the sheep, cattle, donkeys, camels, and even the clothes. Then he would come back to Achish, 
It is the living who praise you, : As I praise you now. : Parents tell their children how faithful you are. 
But if he isn't pleased with me — well, then, let him do to me what he wishes.” 
O land, land, land! : Listen to what the LORD has said
With the help of these twelve men 
From as far away as the northern tribes of Issachar, Zebulun, and Naphtali, people came bringing donkeys, camels, mules, and oxen loaded with food — flour, figs, raisins, wine, and olive oil. 
I, together with my seven counsellors, send you to investigate the conditions in Jerusalem and Judah in order to see how well the Law of your God, which has been entrusted to you, is being obeyed. 
This has been remembered in his favour ever since : and will be for all time to come. 
Be kind enough to lend to your neighbour when he needs help. You are keeping the Lord's commands if you help him. 
I am yours — save me! : I have tried to obey your commands. 
Is it for nothing, then, that I have kept myself pure : and have not committed sin? 
You and your children, together with your servants and the Levites who live in your towns, are to eat these offerings only in the presence of the LORD your God, in the one place of worship chosen by the LORD your God. And you are to be happy there over everything that you have done. 
“Choose one of the leaders from each of the twelve tribes and send them as spies to explore the land of Canaan, which I am giving to the Israelites.” 
And when they ate and drank, it was for their own satisfaction.” 
For this is the commandment that the Lord has given us: : ‘I have made you a light for the Gentiles, : so that all the world may be saved.’ ” 
And so the LORD was angry when he heard them; : he attacked his people with fire, : and his anger against them grew, 
And so the Lord knows how to rescue godly people from their trials and how to keep the wicked under punishment for the Day of Judgement, 
The LORD says, “No one destroys good grapes; instead, they make wine with them. Neither will I destroy all my people — I will save those who serve me. 
You rule on behalf of God and his kingdom, and if you do not govern justly, if you do not uphold the law, if you do not live according to God's will, 
When Jesus had left the crowd and gone indoors, his disciples came to him and said, “Tell us what the parable about the weeds in the field means.” 
“Give generously to anyone who faithfully obeys God. If you are stingy in giving to the poor, God will be stingy in giving to you. 
The people answered, “We'll be glad to give them to you.” They spread out a cloth, and everyone put on it the earrings that he had taken. 
People would suddenly collapse and lie locked in the chains of their own fear. 
The LORD said to Moses, “Come up the mountain to me, and while you are here, I will give you two stone tablets which contain all the laws that I have written for the instruction of the people.” 
The LORD asked Cain, “Where is your brother Abel?” : He answered, “I don't know. Am I supposed to take care of my brother?” 
When he met us in Assos, we took him aboard and went on to Mitylene. 
Again, in the reign of Artaxerxes, emperor of Persia, Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel, and their associates wrote a letter to the emperor. The letter was written in Aramaic and was to be translated when read. 
I am worn out with grief; : every night my bed is damp from my weeping; : my pillow is soaked with tears. 
In my distress I called to the LORD; : he answered me and set me free. 
The priest shall examine him again on the seventh day, and if in his opinion the sore looks the same and has not spread, he shall isolate him for another seven days. 
All David's people and all the people in Israel understood that the king had no part in the murder of Abner. 
She let him down from a window, and he ran away and escaped. 
King David brought together all the Israelite leaders and all the priests and Levites. 
So Samson's wife went to him in tears and said, “You don't love me! You just hate me! You asked my friends a riddle and didn't tell me what it means!” : He said, “Look, I haven't even told my father and mother. Why should I tell you?” 
Though every living creature tremble : and the earth itself be shaken, : I will keep its foundations firm. 
But those who reject me publicly, the Son of Man will also reject before the angels of God. 
Human life is like forced army service, : like a life of hard manual labour, 
When the king calls for you and asks what your occupation is, 
I do not think that I am the least bit inferior to those very special so-called “apostles” of yours! 
They did not care about me, : even though I rescued them from Egypt : and led them through the wilderness: : a land of deserts and sand dunes, : a dry and dangerous land : where no one lives : and no one will even travel. 
Sarah saw them and said to Abraham, “Send this slave and her son away. The son of this woman must not get any part of your wealth, which my son Isaac should inherit.” 
To like sin is to like making trouble. If you brag all the time, you are asking for trouble. 
But you, Moses, stay here with me, and I will give you all my laws and commands. Teach them to the people, so that they will obey them in the land that I am giving them.’ 
and the export of chariots from Egypt. They supplied the Hittite and Syrian kings with horses and chariots, selling chariots for 600 pieces of silver each and horses for 150 each.
Jada, the brother of Shammai, had two sons, Jether and Jonathan, but Jether died without having any sons. 
When David arrived at his palace in Jerusalem, he took the ten concubines he had left to take care of the palace, and put them under guard. He provided for their needs, but did not have intercourse with them. They were kept confined for the rest of their lives, living like widows. 
If you throw stones at birds, you will scare them away; and if you insult a friend, you will break up the friendship. 
and their sight was restored. Jesus spoke sternly to them, “Don't tell this to anyone!” 
But he did not put the branches in front of the weak animals. Soon Laban had all the weak animals, and Jacob all the healthy ones. 
Every grain offering that has been baked in an oven or prepared in a pan or on a griddle belongs to the priest who has offered it to God. 
Then he said to the disciples, “Where is your faith?” : But they were amazed and afraid, and said to one another, “Who is this man? He gives orders to the winds and waves, and they obey him!” 
and Mikloth, the father of Shimeah. Their descendants lived in Jerusalem near other families of their clan. 
He answered them all; there was nothing too difficult for him to explain. 
Then the LORD came down to see the city and the tower which those men had built, 
But if the LORD does something unheard of, and the earth opens up and swallows them with all they own, so that they go down alive to the world of the dead, you will know that these men have rejected the LORD.” 
After the Philistines captured the Covenant Box, they carried it from Ebenezer to their city of Ashdod, 
The Spirit gives one person a message full of wisdom, while to another person the same Spirit gives a message full of knowledge. 
but he will bring disgrace on those who hate you, : and the homes of the wicked will vanish.
He preferred to suffer with God's people rather than to enjoy sin for a little while. 
You will not escape; you will be captured and handed over to him. You will see him face to face and talk to him in person; then you will go to Babylonia. 
I will prove to you, then, that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins.” So he said to the paralysed man, 
Lord, I have chosen Sarah because it is right, : not because I lusted for her. : Please be merciful to us : and grant that we may grow old together.” 
I tremble with fear before him. 
All the people who lived in the cities of Judah brought tithes of their cattle and sheep, and they also brought large quantities of gifts, which they dedicated to the LORD their God. 
So I will always sing praises to you, : as I offer you daily what I have promised.
Bring us back, LORD God Almighty. : Show us your mercy, and we will be saved.
Peter spoke up, “Explain this saying to us.” 
At Mount Sinai the LORD our God made a covenant, 
“Azarias, take four of the servants with you, and two camels, and go to Gabael's house in the town of Rages. Give him the signed document, so that he will give you the money. Then bring him back with you for the wedding feast.  
(There was another man, Uriah son of Shemaiah from Kiriath Jearim, who spoke in the name of the LORD against this city and nation just as Jeremiah did. 
If he needs something, lend it to him. And when you are in debt, pay it back as soon as you can. 
As time went on, this ungodly custom became stronger. Finally it became law, and idols were being worshipped at the command of powerful rulers. 
Her father will say to them, ‘I gave my daughter to this man in marriage, and now he doesn't want her. 
If anyone goes out of the house, his death will be his own fault, and we will not be responsible; but if anyone in the house with you is harmed, then we will be responsible. 
The time is coming when they will say to Jerusalem, : “Do not be afraid, city of Zion! : Do not let your hands hang limp! 
So the field which had belonged to the Hittites, and the cave in it, became the property of Abraham for a burial ground.
The angel also told me to proclaim: “The LORD Almighty says that his cities will be prosperous again and that he will once again help Jerusalem and claim the city as his own.” 
This, now, is what the Sovereign LORD says: “I am placing in Zion a foundation that is firm and strong. In it I am putting a solid cornerstone on which are written the words, ‘Faith that is firm is also patient.’ 
“Rejoice, Jerusalem, because of your righteous people; : they will be gathered together from exile : to praise the Lord of the ages. 
By his daughter-in-law Tamar, Judah had two more sons, Perez and Zerah. 
A person can be rebuked in the wrong way; it may be wiser to keep quiet than to speak. 
I am crushed by their insults, : as they keep on asking me, : “Where is your God?” 
He placed his hands on her, and at once she straightened herself up and praised God. 
Some of the seed fell among thorn bushes, which grew up and choked the plants.  
The angel demanded, “Why have you beaten your donkey three times like this? I have come to bar your way, because you should not be making this journey.  
And now here they are, God's own children, with a place of their own among God's people. 
They are not happy till they are dead and buried; 
The memory of Nehemiah is also great. He rebuilt the ruined walls of Jerusalem, installing the gates and bars. He rebuilt our homes. 
Then some Sadducees, who say that people will not rise from death, came to Jesus and said, 
Olive trees will grow everywhere in your land, but you will not have any olive oil, because the olives will drop off. 
May the God of peace provide you with every good thing you need in order to do his will, and may he, through Jesus Christ, do in us what pleases him. And to Christ be the glory for ever and ever! Amen. 
The king also gave orders that every day they were to be given the same food and wine as the members of the royal court. After three years of this training they were to appear before the king. 
Abijah raised an army of 400,000 soldiers, and Jeroboam opposed him with an army of 800,000. 
When they had finished speaking, James spoke up: “Listen to me, my brothers and sisters! 
In this way they will store up for themselves a treasure which will be a solid foundation for the future. And then they will be able to win the life which is true life. 
Better to eat a dry crust of bread with peace of mind than to have a banquet in a house full of trouble. 
For we are not fighting against human beings but against the wicked spiritual forces in the heavenly world, the rulers, authorities, and cosmic powers of this dark age. 
no wicked people have been happy for long. 
The Lamb went and took the scroll from the right-hand of the one who sits on the throne. 
I will give you many descendants, and some of them will be kings. You will have so many descendants that they will become nations. 
“For the Tent of my presence make an enclosure out of fine linen curtains. On the south side the curtains are to be 44 metres long, 
“If I send an epidemic on that country and in my anger take many lives, killing people and animals, 
For example, if two men go into the forest together to cut wood and if, as one of them is chopping down a tree, the head of the axe comes off the handle and kills the other, he can run to one of those three cities and be safe. 
How beautiful you are, my love; : how perfect you are! 
Live as free people; do not, however, use your freedom to cover up any evil, but live as God's slaves. 
Remember your relative Elizabeth. It is said that she cannot have children, but she herself is now six months pregnant, even though she is very old. 
The LORD says, : “I am the one who strengthens you. : Why should you fear mortals, : who are no more enduring than grass? 
So Saul called his troops to war, to march against Keilah and besiege David and his men. 
They grieved and mourned and fasted until evening for Saul and Jonathan and for Israel, the people of the LORD, because so many had been killed in battle. 
Anything on which she sits or lies during her monthly period is unclean. 
What did we bring into the world? Nothing! What can we take out of the world? Nothing! 
“Jacob's sons became jealous of their brother Joseph and sold him to be a slave in Egypt. But God was with him 
“Joseph is still alive!” they told him. “He is the ruler of all Egypt!” Jacob was stunned and could not believe them. 
These are Ahimoth's descendants from generation to generation: Elkanah, Zophai, Nahath, 
There were so many people coming and going that Jesus and his disciples didn't even have time to eat. So he said to them, “Let us go off by ourselves to some place where we will be alone and you can rest for a while.”  
Gifts and bribes make even the wise blind to the truth, and prevent them from being honest in their criticism. 
The LORD says to his people in Babylonia: “You have escaped death! Now go! Don't wait! Though you are far from home, think about me, your LORD, and remember Jerusalem. 
Whoever has the Spirit, however, is able to judge the value of everything, but no one is able to judge him. 
I looked at the earth — it was a barren waste; : at the sky — there was no light. 
He said to me, “And now, Daniel, close the book and put a seal on it until the end of the world. Meanwhile, many people will waste their efforts trying to understand what is happening.” 
May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
This is what the scripture says: : “If you hear God's voice today, : do not be stubborn, as your ancestors were : when they rebelled against God.” 
The setting sun sets fire to the hilltops, : like a metal furnace glowing from the heat. : It sends out fiery rays, : blinding the eyes with its brightness. 
For the person who has something will be given more, so that he will have more than enough; but the person who has nothing will have taken away from him even the little he has.  
There is no condemnation now for those who live in union with Christ Jesus. 
You were taken up to heaven in a fiery whirlwind, a chariot drawn by fiery horses. 
“The Emperor's,” they answered. : So Jesus said to them, “Well, then, pay the Emperor what belongs to the Emperor, and pay God what belongs to God.” 
Choose some corrupt judge to try my enemy, : and let one of his own enemies accuse him. 
The blood on the doorposts will be a sign to mark the houses in which you live. When I see the blood, I will pass over you and will not harm you when I punish the Egyptians. 
Do you think I enjoy seeing an evil person die?” asks the Sovereign LORD. “No, I would rather see him repent and live. 
The guards were so afraid that they trembled and became like dead men. 
These are the descendants of Terah, who was the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran. Haran was the father of Lot, 
There he will be safe from the dead person's relative who seeks revenge. No one accused of manslaughter is to be put to death without a public trial. 
In addition to their four faces and four wings, they each had four human hands, one under each wing. 
“Some say John the Baptist,” they answered. “Others say Elijah, while others say Jeremiah or some other prophet.” 
So let's put them to the test. We'll be cruel to them, and torment them; then we'll find out how calm and reasonable they are! We'll find out just how much they can stand! 
Now, if anyone has made somebody sad, he has not done it to me but to all of you — in part at least. (I say this because I do not want to be too hard on him.) 
Look on your servant with kindness; : save me in your constant love. 
The LORD asked me, “Jeremiah, what do you see?” : I answered, “A branch of an almond tree.” 
Jesus answered him, “If I have said anything wrong, tell everyone here what it was. But if I am right in what I have said, why do you hit me?” 
When Jesus had finished teaching all these things, he said to his disciples, 
After you there will be another empire, not as great as yours, and after that a third, an empire of bronze, which will rule the whole earth. 
People will be killed everywhere, and those who survive will acknowledge that I am the LORD. 
Jesus asked him, “What is your name?” : “My name is ‘Mob’,” he answered — because many demons had gone into him. 
“He protects the lives of his faithful people, : but the wicked disappear in darkness; : a man does not triumph by his own strength. 
until he came to the entrance of the palace. He did not go in because no one wearing sackcloth was allowed inside. 
So I realized that all we can do is to be happy and do the best we can while we are still alive. 
All that the Lord has done is very good; : all that he commands is sooner or later done. 
As they came to the threshing place of Chidon, the oxen stumbled, and Uzzah stretched out his hand and took hold of the Covenant Box. 
They dig to the sources of rivers : And bring to light what is hidden. 
Some time later the king of Egypt's wine steward and his chief baker offended the king. 
Who will not stand in awe of you, Lord? : Who will refuse to declare your greatness? : You alone are holy. : All the nations will come : and worship you, : because your just actions are seen by all.” 
His sons brought him the blood, and he dipped his finger in it, put some of it on the projections at the corners of the altar, and poured out the rest of it at the base of the altar. 
Then all the people of Israel went up to Bethel and mourned. They sat there in the LORD's presence and did not eat until evening. They offered fellowship sacrifices and burnt some sacrifices whole — all in the presence of the LORD. 
their heroes and their soldiers, their judges and their prophets, their fortune tellers and their statesmen, 
A number of years later Jehoshaphat went to the city of Samaria to visit Ahab. To honour Jehoshaphat and those with him, Ahab had a large number of sheep and cattle slaughtered for a feast. He tried to persuade Jehoshaphat to join him in attacking the city of Ramoth in Gilead. 
If any of you suffer, it must not be because you are a murderer or a thief or a criminal or a meddler in other people's affairs. 
The fields you plough will be free of rocks; : wild animals will never attack you. 
If a man makes this offering as a thankoffering to God, he shall present, together with the animal to be sacrificed, an offering of bread made without yeast: either thick loaves made of flour mixed with olive oil or biscuits brushed with olive oil or cakes made of flour mixed with olive oil. 
At sunset Joshua gave orders, and their bodies were taken down and thrown into the same cave where they had hidden earlier. Large stones were placed at the entrance to the cave, and they are still there. 
The third assignment made was for the families of the tribe of Zebulun. The land which they received reached as far as Sarid. 
It is not right to favour the guilty and prevent the innocent from receiving justice. 
So take heart, men! For I trust in God that it will be just as I was told. 
He gave us victory over the peoples; : he made us rule over the nations. 
God gave the four young men knowledge and skill in literature and philosophy. In addition, he gave Daniel skill in interpreting visions and dreams. 
There was a certain blameless man who quickly took action to defend them. Acting as their priest, Aaron offered prayers and burnt the incense used in asking forgiveness of sins. With prayers and incense as his weapons, he withstood your anger and ended the disaster. By doing this he proved that he was your servant. 
When you see this happen, you will be glad; it will make you strong and healthy. Then you will know that I, the LORD, help those who obey me, and I show my anger against my enemies.” 
My people, foreigners will serve you. : They will take care of your flocks : And farm your land and tend your vineyards. 
Then he sent for Joab, to ask him to go to the king for him; but Joab would not come. Again Absalom sent for him, and again Joab refused to come. 
All the people and their leaders agreed to free their slaves and never to enslave them again. They did set them free, 
He committed no sin, and no one ever heard a lie come from his lips. 
Provide some horses for Paul to ride and get him safely through to the governor Felix.” 
In a little while the sky was covered with dark clouds, the wind began to blow, and heavy rain began to fall. Ahab got into his chariot and started back to Jezreel. 
They will worship me and will lead their sheep and cattle to pasture in the Plain of Sharon in the west and in the Valley of Trouble in the east. 
David and his men started crying and did not stop until they were completely exhausted. 
He is not here; he has been raised, just as he said. Come here and see the place where he was lying. 
“Mourn for that nation, you that live near by, : all of you that know its fame. : Say, ‘Its powerful rule has been broken; : its glory and might are no more.’ 
Be careful, then, and do not refuse to hear him who speaks. Those who refused to hear the one who gave the divine message on earth did not escape. How much less shall we escape, then, if we turn away from the one who speaks from heaven! 
Before the boy is old enough to say ‘Mummy’ and ‘Daddy’, all the wealth of Damascus and all the loot of Samaria will be carried off by the king of Assyria.” 
“Here are the laws that you are to obey as long as you live in the land that the LORD, the God of your ancestors, is giving you. Listen to them! 
Gaal said again, “Look! There are men coming down the crest of the mountain and one group is coming along the road from the oak tree of the fortune tellers!” 
Every Israelite woman will go to her Egyptian neighbours and to any Egyptian woman living in her house and will ask for clothing and for gold and silver jewellery. The Israelites will put these things on their sons and daughters and carry away the wealth of the Egyptians.”
You, LORD, are all I have, : and you give me all I need; : my future is in your hands. 
These festivals are in addition to the regular Sabbaths, and these offerings are in addition to your regular gifts, your offerings in fulfilment of vows, and your freewill offerings that you give to the LORD.) 
I will show you whom to fear: fear God, who, after killing, has the authority to throw into hell. Believe me, he is the one you must fear! 
Saul was told that David was in Naioth in Ramah, 
Three of Job's friends were Eliphaz, from the city of Teman, Bildad, from the land of Shuah, and Zophar, from the land of Naamah. When they heard how much Job had been suffering, they decided to go and comfort him. 
Do not be afraid of those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul; rather be afraid of God, who can destroy both body and soul in hell.  
saying, “If you only knew today what is needed for peace! But now you cannot see it!  
But Israel's sins will be forgiven only when the stones of pagan altars are ground up like chalk, and no more incense altars or symbols of the goddess Asherah are left. 
‘Sovereign LORD, I know that you have shown me only the beginning of the great and wonderful things you are going to do. There is no god in heaven or on earth who can do the mighty things that you have done! 
I have seen slaves on horseback while noblemen go on foot like slaves. 
Our ancestors sinned, but now they are gone, : and we are suffering for their sins. 
No good ever comes to a person who gives comfort to the wicked; it is not a righteous act.  
But I will not withdraw my support from him as I did from Saul, whom I removed so that you could be king. 
In the houses of evil people are treasures which they got dishonestly. They use false measures, a thing that I hate.  
Eltolad, Bethul, Hormah, 
As they were going out, they met a man from Cyrene named Simon, and the soldiers forced him to carry Jesus' cross. 
He also made 300 smaller shields, overlaying each one of them with almost two kilogrammes of gold. He had all these shields placed in the Hall of the Forest of Lebanon. 
The man told me, “These are the kitchens where the temple servants are to boil the sacrifices the people offer.”
Each of them was given a white robe, and they were told to rest a little while longer, until the complete number of their fellow-servants and fellow-Christians had been killed, as they had been. 
My men will bring the logs down from Lebanon to the sea, and will tie them together in rafts to float them down the coast to the place you choose. There my men will untie them, and your men will take charge of them. On your part, I would like you to supply the food for my men.” 
One day, late in the afternoon, David got up from his nap and went to the palace roof. As he walked about up there, he saw a woman having a bath. She was very beautiful. 
Charcoal keeps the embers glowing, wood keeps the fire burning, and troublemakers keep arguments alive. 
Jesus spoke to them at once. “Courage!” he said. “It is I. Don't be afraid!” 
He made a rim 75 millimetres wide round it and put a gold border round the rim. 
Work is what he needs. If he won't obey you, put him in chains. 
The LORD rewards those who are faithful and righteous. Today he put you in my power, but I did not harm you, whom the LORD made king. 
the splendour of Moab is gone. : The enemy have captured Heshbon : and plot to destroy the nation of Moab. : The town of Madmen will be silenced; : armies will march against it. 
“Think of the past, of the time long ago; : ask your parents to tell you what happened, : ask the old people to tell of the past. 
So he makes up false charges against her, accusing her of not being a virgin when they got married. 
It is weak, but he prays to it for health. It is dead, but he prays to it for life. It has no experience, but he prays to it for help. It cannot walk, but he prays to it for a successful journey. 
LORD, you have deceived me, : and I was deceived. : You are stronger than I am, : and you have overpowered me. : Everyone jeers at me; : they mock me all day long. 
I am afraid that when I get there I will find you different from what I would like you to be and you will find me different from what you would like me to be. I am afraid that I will find quarrelling and jealousy, hot tempers and selfishness, insults and gossip, pride and disorder. 
I will watch over this Temple and be ready to hear all the prayers that are offered here, 
If anyone declares that Jesus is the Son of God, he lives in union with God and God lives in union with him. 
I will gladly offer you a sacrifice, O LORD; : I will give you thanks : because you are good. 
Don't hesitate to discipline children. A good spanking won't kill them. 
that grow and burst into bloom, : then dry up and die in the evening. 
Instead of being gathered and buried, their bones will be like manure lying on the ground. They will be spread out before the sun, the moon, and the stars, which these people have loved and served, and which they have consulted and worshipped. 
Who has the right to go up the LORD's hill? : Who may enter his holy Temple? 
That is all the good they will do you — : those astrologers you've consulted all your life. : They all will leave you and go their own way, : and none will be left to save you.”
Instead, you returned and ate a meal in a place he had ordered you not to eat in. Because of this you will be killed, and your body will not be buried in your family grave.” 
Amaziah summoned up his courage and led his army to the Valley of Salt. There they fought and killed 10,000 Edomite soldiers 
So Jacob's descendants live in peace, : secure in a land full of corn and wine, : where dew from the sky waters the ground. 
He called the twelve disciples together and sent them out two by two. He gave them authority over the evil spirits 
The wise leaders will shine with all the brightness of the sky. And those who have taught many people to do what is right will shine like the stars for ever.” 
He went back into the palace and asked Jesus, “Where do you come from?” : But Jesus did not answer. 
When Abner arrived in Hebron, Joab took him aside at the gate, as though he wanted to speak privately with him, and there he stabbed him in the belly. And so Abner was murdered because he had killed Joab's brother Asahel. 
Then, when the sun came up, it burnt the young plants; and because the roots had not grown deep enough, the plants soon dried up.  
He takes a good look at himself and then goes away and at once forgets what he looks like. 
A widow who is all alone, with no one to take care of her, has placed her hope in God and continues to pray and ask him for his help night and day. 
An evil gang is round me; : like a pack of dogs they close in on me; : they tear at my hands and feet. 
He said he would show mercy to our ancestors : and remember his sacred covenant. 
Later, when the Israelites came down from Bethulia, they untied Achior, brought him into the town, and took him before the town officials, 
As soon as they were inside the city, Ishmael and his men killed them and threw their bodies in a well. 
Get up, let us go. Look, here is the man who is betraying me!” 
I am the LORD your God, : who brought you out of Egypt. : Open your mouth, and I will feed you. 
Among the weak in faith I become weak like one of them, in order to win them. So I become all things to all people, that I may save some of them by whatever means are possible. 
Issachar, Zebulun, Benjamin, 
Those who are sick lose their appetites, : and even the finest food looks revolting. 
My help will come from the LORD, : who made heaven and earth. 
Then he took the book of the covenant, in which the LORD's commands were written, and read it aloud to the people. They said, “We will obey the LORD and do everything that he has commanded.” 
Abiathar's son Jonathan and Zadok's son Ahimaaz were waiting at the spring of Enrogel, on the outskirts of Jerusalem, because they did not dare to be seen entering the city. A servant woman would regularly go and tell them what was happening, and then they would go and tell King David. 
they wait in their hiding places like lions. : They lie in wait for the poor; : they catch them in their traps and drag them away. 
Zedekiah was 21 years old when he became king of Judah, and he ruled in Jerusalem for eleven years. His mother's name was Hamutal, the daughter of the Jeremiah who lived in the city of Libnah. 
Good people will be rewarded for what they say, but those who are deceitful are hungry for violence. 
Peter began to speak: “I now realize that it is true that God treats everyone on the same basis. 
Add olive oil and put incense on it. 
I will cut off your food supply, so that ten women will need only one oven to bake all the bread they have. They will ration it out, and when you have eaten it all, you will still be hungry. 
No one could buy or sell without having this mark, that is, the beast's name or the number that stands for the name. 
But if anyone does not take care of his relatives, especially the members of his own family, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. 
You are a special kind of prostitute. No one forced you to become one. You didn't get paid; you paid them! Yes, you are different.” 
His best soldiers will be killed in battle, and the survivors will be scattered in every direction. Then you will know that I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
And because of God's gracious gift to me I say to every one of you: do not think of yourself more highly than you should. Instead, be modest in your thinking, and judge yourself according to the amount of faith that God has given you. 
If a man has intercourse with his daughter-in-law, they shall both be put to death. They have committed incest and are responsible for their own death. 
Will people gain anything if they win the whole world but are themselves lost or defeated? Of course not!  
He said to his oldest servant, who was in charge of all that he had, “Place your hand between my thighs and make a vow. 
Do not condemn me with the wicked, : with those who do evil — : those whose words are friendly, : but who have hatred in their hearts. 
Use my deceitful words to strike them all dead, master and slave alike. Let a woman's strength break their pride. 
No people in the world will be as richly blessed as you. None of you nor any of your livestock will be sterile. 
The doctor's prayer is that the Lord will make him able to ease his patients' pain and make them well again. 
Above all else, however, remember that no one can explain by himself or herself a prophecy in the Scriptures. 
and when they heard that Zimri had plotted against the king and assassinated him, then and there they all proclaimed their commander Omri king of Israel. 
She brought with her a large group of attendants, as well as camels loaded with spices, jewels, and a large amount of gold. When she and Solomon met, she asked him all the questions that she could think of. 
Obey them faithfully, and this will show the people of other nations how wise you are. When they hear of all these laws, they will say, ‘What wisdom and understanding this great nation has!’ 
God is going to judge everything we do, whether good or bad, even things done in secret.
The LORD said to Moses, “Take an equal part of each of the following sweet spices — stacte, onycha, galbanum, and pure frankincense. 
He put the breastpiece on him and put the Urim and Thummim in it. 
I can assure you that they gave as much as they could, and even more than they could. Of their own free will 
David's army went out into the countryside and fought the Israelites in the forest of Ephraim. 
Every Sabbath, for all time to come, the bread must be placed in the presence of the LORD. This is Israel's duty for ever. 
So the LORD says, “I will make Samaria a pile of ruins in the open country, a place for planting grapevines. I will pour the rubble of the city down into the valley, and will lay bare the city's foundations. 
Do not be resentful when you set a slave free; after all, the slave has served you for six years at half the cost of a hired servant. Do this, and the LORD your God will bless you in all that you do. 
Take your sheep, goats, and cattle, and leave. Also pray for a blessing on me.” 
You may think that everything you do is right, but remember that the LORD judges your motives. 
Then I told the Rechabite clan that the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, had said, “You have obeyed the command that your ancestor Jonadab gave you; you have followed all his instructions, and you have done everything he commanded you. 
Some, however, did receive him and believed in him; so he gave them the right to become God's children. 
Make a crown out of the silver and gold they have given, and put it on the head of the High Priest, Joshua son of Jehozadak. 
He was outstanding among them, but was not as famous as “The Three”. David put him in charge of his bodyguard. 
You reprimand the proud; : cursed are those who disobey your commands. 
But God teaches people through suffering : and uses distress to open their eyes. 
“Then I took water and washed the blood off you. I rubbed olive oil on your skin. 
and said, “I could never drink this! It would be like drinking the blood of these men who risked their lives!” So he refused to drink it. These were the brave deeds of the three famous soldiers. 
God condemned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, destroying them with fire, and made them an example of what will happen to the godless. 
The Wicked One will come with the power of Satan and perform all kinds of false miracles and wonders, 
And so I thought it over: to be wedded to Wisdom is to live for ever, 
No hawk sees the roads to the mines, : And no vulture ever flies over them. 
Abraham married another wife, whose name was Keturah. 
An angel of the LORD went to the Assyrian camp and killed 185,000 soldiers. At dawn the next day there they lay, all dead! 
A week later, when the time came for the baby to be circumcised, he was named Jesus, the name which the angel had given him before he had been conceived. 
The people of Judah killed Amon's assassins and made his son Josiah king.
Because you did, I will hand you over to other nations who will rob you and plunder you. I will destroy you so completely that you will not be a nation any more or have a country of your own. Then you will know that I am the LORD.” 
Many of the believers came, publicly admitting and revealing what they had done. 
Whoever did not have their names written in the book of the living were thrown into the lake of fire.
Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema, 
in the territory of Hamath. There the king had them beaten and put to death. : So the people of Judah were carried away from their land into exile. 
The sea has rolled over Babylon and covered it with roaring waves. 
Put your heart right, Job. Reach out to God. 
Was it not necessary for the Messiah to suffer these things and then to enter his glory?”  
Lotan was the ancestor of the clans of Hori and Heman. (Lotan had a sister named Timna.) 
The LORD will give you victory over them, and you are to treat them exactly as I have told you. 
At his death his son Ahaziah succeeded him as king. 
King David chose 2,700 outstanding heads of families from Jeriah's relatives and put them in charge of administering all religious and civil matters in Israel east of the River Jordan — the territories of Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh.
Confuse the speech of my enemies, O Lord! : I see violence and riots in the city, 
I am the first and the last, the beginning and the end.” 
So Christ came and preached the Good News of peace to all — to you Gentiles, who were far away from God, and to the Jews, who were near to him. 
things we have heard and known, : things that our ancestors told us. 
Mordecai learnt about it and told Queen Esther, who then told the king what Mordecai had found out. 
A bad wife will make her husband gloomy and depressed, and break his heart. Show me a timid man who can never make up his mind, and I will show you a wife who doesn't make her husband happy. 
Take some of the bull's blood and with your finger put it on the projections of the altar. Then pour out the rest of the blood at the base of the altar. 
While John's disciples were leaving, Jesus spoke about him to the crowds: “When you went out to John in the desert, what did you expect to see? A blade of grass bending in the wind?  
“Tell us when this will be,” they said, “and tell us what will happen to show that the time has come for all these things to take place.” 
For even though you know all this, I want to remind you of how the Lord once rescued the people of Israel from Egypt, but afterwards destroyed those who did not believe. 
I am exhausted by sorrow, : and weeping has shortened my life. : I am weak from all my troubles; : even my bones are wasting away. 
While Zedekiah was looking on, his sons were put to death; then Nebuchadnezzar had Zedekiah's eyes put out, placed him in chains, and took him to Babylon. 
Everyone tries to gain the favour of important people; everyone claims the friendship of those who give out favours. 
They will sweep through Judah in a flood, rising shoulder high and covering everything.” : God is with us! His outspread wings protect the land. 
Meanwhile, the Babylonians burnt down the royal palace and the houses of the people and tore down the walls of Jerusalem. 
They sacrificed seven bulls and seven sheep, to make sure that God would help the Levites who were carrying the Covenant Box. 
He makes them cheerful and puts a sparkle in their eyes. He blesses them with life and health. 
The scripture says that the Messiah will be a descendant of King David and will be born in Bethlehem, the town where David lived.” 
The Sovereign LORD says, “On the day when Gog invades Israel, I will be furious. 
One night King Belshazzar invited a thousand noblemen to a great banquet, and they drank wine together. 
the commands in the covenant of the Most High. Instead of getting upset over your neighbour's faults, overlook them. 
And Saul approved of his murder. : That very day the church in Jerusalem began to suffer cruel persecution. All the believers, except the apostles, were scattered throughout the provinces of Judea and Samaria. 
where Zadok and Nathan are to anoint him as king of Israel. Then blow the trumpet and shout, ‘Long live King Solomon!’ 
Our brothers and sisters, we command you in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to keep away from all believers who are living a lazy life and who do not follow the instructions that we gave them. 
Figs are beginning to ripen; : the air is fragrant with blossoming vines. : Come then, my love; : my darling, come with me. 
Jacob got up early next morning, took the stone that was under his head, and set it up as a memorial. Then he poured olive oil on it to dedicate it to God. 
But now I tell you: if a man divorces his wife, for any cause other than her unfaithfulness, then he is guilty of making her commit adultery if she marries again; and the man who marries her commits adultery also. 
A good reputation is better than expensive perfume; and the day you die is better than the day you are born. 
But the people continued to stand a long way off, and only Moses went near the dark cloud where God was. 
Your talk shows your faults; it is like a sieve that separates out the rubbish. 
Let the giving of thanks be your sacrifice to God, : and give the Almighty all that you promised. 
But better off than either are those who have never been born, who have never seen the injustice that goes on in this world. 
The tribe of Reuben rebuilt Heshbon, Elealeh, Kiriathaim, 
They alone will enter my Temple, serve at my altar, and conduct the temple worship. 
Don't try to understand things that are too hard for you, or investigate matters that are beyond your power to know. 
“Whoever hits someone and kills him is to be put to death. 
No one has ever seen God. The only Son, who is the same as God and is at the Father's side, he has made him known. 
The king said to them, “I have made up my mind that you must tell me the dream and then tell me what it means. If you can't, I'll have you torn limb from limb and make your houses a pile of ruins. 
In the first place, she has broken the Law of the Most High. In the second place, she has wronged her husband. And in the third place, she has made a whore of herself by committing adultery and bearing the child of a man not her husband. 
I do not understand what I do; for I don't do what I would like to do, but instead I do what I hate. 
She was filled with lust for oversexed men who had all the lustfulness of donkeys or stallions.” 
“After a long time the master of those servants came back and settled accounts with them.  
When the corn is ripe, the man starts cutting it with his sickle, because harvest time has come. 
“And now, O LORD, fulfil for all time the promise you made about me and my descendants, and do what you said you would. 
“You will see ‘The Awful Horror’ of which the prophet Daniel spoke. It will be standing in the holy place.” (Note to the reader: be sure to understand what this means!)  
Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, “Didn't I tell you that he never prophesies anything good for me? It's always something bad!” 
Once from this city of Heshbon : Sihon's army went forth like a fire; : It destroyed the city of Ar in Moab : And devoured the hills of the upper Arnon. 
The mother who lost her seven children has fainted, : gasping for breath. : Her daylight has turned to darkness; : she is disgraced and sick at heart. : I will let your enemies kill : those of you who are still alive. : I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
They have rejected me and have offered sacrifices to other gods, and so have stirred up my anger by all they have done. My anger is aroused against Jerusalem, and it will not die down. 
but if she does, she must remain single or else be reconciled to her husband; and a husband must not divorce his wife. 
The time is coming. The day is near when buying and selling will have no more meaning, because God's punishment will fall on everyone alike. 
but while you are asleep, poverty will attack you like an armed robber.
when seven cows, fat and sleek, came up out of the river and began to feed on the grass. 
In their greed these false teachers will make a profit out of telling you made-up stories. For a long time now their Judge has been ready, and their Destroyer has been wide awake! 
But the Israelites paid no attention to their leaders. Israel was unfaithful to the LORD and worshipped other gods. Their fathers had obeyed the LORD's commands, but this new generation soon stopped doing so. 
‘I saw the murder of Naboth and his sons yesterday. And I promise that I will punish you here in this same field.’ So take Joram's body,” Jehu ordered his aide, “and throw it in the field that belonged to Naboth, so as to fulfil the LORD's promise.” 
They came to the land of Gilead, to the people of Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh, 
Absalom did this with every Israelite who came to the king for justice, and so he won their loyalty. 
When that time comes, there will be a highway between Egypt and Assyria. The people of those two countries will travel to and fro between them, and the two nations will worship together. 
In the same way, when you see these things happening, you will know that the Kingdom of God is about to come. 
As long as they are under the Nazirite vow, they must not cut their hair or shave. They are bound by the vow for the full time that they are dedicated to the LORD, and they shall let their hair grow. 
In the top basket there were all kinds of pastries for the king, and the birds were eating them.” 
But if you do not obey my commands, then I swear to you that this palace will fall into ruins. I, the LORD, have spoken. 
“If your hand or your foot makes you lose your faith, cut it off and throw it away! It is better for you to enter life without a hand or a foot than to keep both hands and both feet and be thrown into the eternal fire.  
Jonathan praised David to Saul and said, “Sir, don't do wrong to your servant David. He has never done you any wrong; on the contrary, everything he has done has been a great help to you. 
“Priests must neither shave their heads nor let their hair grow long. They are to keep it a proper length. 
I cried to him for help; : I praised him with songs. 
The disciples said, “Look! Here are two swords, Lord!” :   “That is enough!”   he replied. 
If she does not, I will strip her as naked as she was on the day she was born. I will make her like a dry and barren land, and she will die of thirst. 
with Eliasaph son of Lael as chief of the clan. 
who married Moabite women, Orpah and Ruth. About ten years later 
the priest shall examine it. If it seems to be deeper than the surrounding skin and the hairs in it are yellowish and thin, it is a dreaded skin disease, and he shall pronounce the person unclean. 
But Esther went to the king, and the king issued written orders with the result that Haman suffered the fate he had planned for the Jews — he and his sons were hanged from the gallows. 
The Philistines fought hard and defeated the Israelites, who went running to their homes. There was a great slaughter: 30,000 Israelite soldiers were killed. 
The sons of Leah's slave Zilpah were Gad and Asher. These sons were born in Mesopotamia. 
The LORD will not forgive such a man. Instead, the LORD's burning anger will flame up against him, and all the disasters written in this book will fall on him until the LORD has destroyed him completely. 
Then Solomon said, “Don't kill the child! Give it to the first woman — she is its real mother.” 
The trees will bear fruit, the fields will produce crops, and everyone will live in safety on his own land. When I break my people's chains and set them free from those who made them slaves, then they will know that I am the LORD. 
Joseph went from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to the town of Bethlehem in Judea, the birthplace of King David. Joseph went there because he was a descendant of David. 
The tribe of Simeon: the clans of Nemuel, Jamin, Jachin, 
Satan wanted to bring trouble on the people of Israel, so he made David decide to take a census. 
For many days we could not see the sun or the stars, and the wind kept on blowing very hard. We finally gave up all hope of being saved. 
“I have longed to help Jerusalem because of my deep love for her people, a love which has made me angry with her enemies. 
The total contribution of the officers weighed nearly 200 kilogrammes. 
Look at Zion, the city where we celebrate our religious festivals. Look at Jerusalem! What a safe place it will be to live in! It will be like a tent that is never moved, whose pegs are never pulled up and whose ropes never break. 
Do nothing destructive, whether it seems insignificant or not,
“People of Israel, you are my witnesses; : I chose you to be my servant, : so that you would know me and believe in me : and understand that I am the only God. : Besides me there is no other god; : there never was and never will be. 
When we are punished, it seems to us at the time something to make us sad, not glad. Later, however, those who have been disciplined by such punishment reap the peaceful reward of a righteous life. 
The LORD did bless Hannah, and she had three more sons and two daughters. The boy Samuel grew up in the service of the LORD. 
He and the others were so frightened that he did not know what to say. 
They act as if my people's wounds were only scratches. ‘All is well,’ they say, when all is not well. 
Moses said to Korah, “Tomorrow you and your 250 followers must come to the Tent of the LORD's presence; Aaron will also be there. 
People will see you naked; : they will see you humbled and shamed. : I will take vengeance, and no one will stop me.” 
Wisdom that is not expressed is like a treasure that has been hidden — both are useless. 
They said, “Keep quiet. Don't say a word. Come with us and be our priest and adviser. Wouldn't you rather be a priest for a whole Israelite tribe than for the family of one man?” 
who stand in the LORD's house, : in the Temple of our God. 
“Who are you?” they asked him. : Jesus answered, “What I have told you from the very beginning.  
and said to him, “Don't you know that King Baalis of Ammon has sent Ishmael to murder you?” But Gedaliah did not believe it. 
The LORD said to me, “I will look down from heaven as quietly as the dew forms in the warm nights of harvest time, as serenely as the sun shines in the heat of the day. 
As Tobit and Sarah were praying, God in heaven heard their prayers 
The LORD blessed Jehoshaphat because he followed the example of his father's early life and did not worship Baal. 
Give our greetings to all your leaders and to all God's people. The brothers and sisters from Italy send you their greetings. 
He took the earrings, melted them, poured the gold into a mould, and made a gold bull calf. : The people said, “Israel, this is our god, who led us out of Egypt!” 
What an unhappy man I am! Who will rescue me from this body that is taking me to death? 
Many people had come over to Asa's side from Ephraim, Manasseh, and Simeon, and were living in his kingdom, because they had seen that the LORD was with him. Asa summoned all of them and the people of Judah and Benjamin. 
King David dedicated them for use in worship, along with the silver and gold he took from the nations he conquered — Edom, Moab, Ammon, Philistia, and Amalek. 
Church helpers must also have a good character and be sincere; they must not drink too much wine or be greedy for money; 
Then you guided your people as they travelled through a country they did not know. You guided them with a pillar of fire. It was like a sun that would not harm them on that glorious journey. 
great and small alike, : rich and poor together. 
The servant who had received 5,000 coins went at once and invested his money and earned another 5,000.  
Both this pile and this memorial stone are reminders. I will never go beyond this pile to attack you, and you must never go beyond it or beyond this memorial stone to attack me. 
It was he who “gave gifts”; he appointed some to be apostles, others to be prophets, others to be evangelists, others to be pastors and teachers. 
Jesus answered them, “Do you believe now?  
You will live by your sword, : But be your brother's slave. : Yet when you rebel, : You will break away from his control.” 
Isaac finished giving his blessing, and as soon as Jacob left, his brother Esau came in from hunting. 
All the people of Israel shall live in shelters for seven days, 
Then King Rehoboam sent Adoniram, who was in charge of the forced labour, to go to the Israelites, but they stoned him to death. At this, Rehoboam hurriedly got into his chariot and escaped to Jerusalem. 
Then his brother was born with the red thread on his arm, and he was named Zerah.
the man must go to the place of worship and take an oath that he has not stolen the other man's animal. If the animal was not stolen, the owner shall accept the loss, and the other man need not repay him; 
Let them drink and forget their poverty and unhappiness. 
But if the dead man's brother does not want to marry her, she is to go before the town leaders and say, ‘My husband's brother will not do his duty; he refuses to give his brother a descendant among the people of Israel.’ 
“I pray not only for them, but also for those who believe in me because of their message.  
It said, “Write down what you see, and send the book to the churches in these seven cities: Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and Laodicea.” 
Early the next morning Laban kissed his grandchildren and his daughters goodbye, and left to go back home.
When someone starts winking at you, he has something bad in mind, and nothing can stop him from going through with it. 
Hilkiah, Azariah, 
There is no one to lead you, : no one among your people : to take you by the hand. 
I will punish Babylonia with all the disasters that I threatened to bring on the nations when I spoke through Jeremiah — all the disasters recorded in this book. 
The records tell how he ruled, how powerful he was, and all the things that happened to him, to Israel, and to the surrounding kingdoms.
The many miracles and wonders that prove that I am an apostle were performed among you with much patience. 
The emperor of Assyria was told that the people he had settled in the cities of Samaria did not know the law of the god of that land, and so the god had sent lions, which were killing them. 
They answered, “If you return the Covenant Box of the God of Israel, you must, of course, send with it a gift to him to pay for your sin. The Covenant Box must not go back without a gift. In this way you will be healed, and you will find out why he has kept on punishing you.” 
Everyone will hate you because of me. But whoever holds out to the end will be saved. 
Then the two kings will sit down to eat at the same table, but their motives will be evil, and they will lie to each other. They will not get what they want, because the time for it has not yet come. 
Righteousness will be his armour, genuine justice will be his helmet, 
The LORD told me 
Their purpose is to prove that your faith is genuine. Even gold, which can be destroyed, is tested by fire; and so your faith, which is much more precious than gold, must also be tested, so that it may endure. Then you will receive praise and glory and honour on the Day when Jesus Christ is revealed. 
Gilead is mine, and Manasseh too; : Ephraim is my helmet : and Judah my royal sceptre. 
He had four unmarried daughters who proclaimed God's message. 
All the people of Israel who were there fled when they heard their cry. They shouted, “Run! The earth might swallow us too!” 
My enemies will know the bitter shame of defeat; : in sudden confusion they will be driven away.
Everything else that King Jeroboam did, the wars he fought and how he ruled, are all recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel. 
held back its power, so that your own righteous people might have food. 
Then Adonijah, whose mother was Haggith, went to Bathsheba, who was Solomon's mother. “Is this a friendly visit?” she asked. : “It is,” he answered, 
Tobias had gone down to wash his feet in the river, when suddenly a huge fish jumped up out of the water and tried to swallow one of his feet. Tobias let out a yell, 
Just as we have a share in Christ's many sufferings, so also through Christ we share in God's great help. 
and present the following parts of the animal as a food offering to the LORD: the fat, the entire fat tail cut off near the backbone, all the fat covering the internal organs, 
I think it only right for me to stir up your memory of these matters as long as I am still alive. 
Then they said to him, “You and Jeremiah must go and hide. Don't let anyone know where you are.” 
Once, while the people were in the wilderness, an angry group of jealous outsiders conspired against Moses. These were Dathan, Abiram, and Korah with their supporters. 
What you think is the right road may lead to death. 
Why have you refused to help us? : Why do you keep your hands behind you? 
Shem, Seth, and Enosh were highly honoured, but Adam's glory was above that of any other living being.
Neariah had three sons: Elioenai, Hizkiah, and Azrikam. 
(He said this to test Philip; actually he already knew what he would do.) 
He pulled me out of a dangerous pit, : out of the deadly quicksand. : He set me safely on a rock : and made me secure. 
It was the tenth day of the fifth month of the seventh year of our exile. Some of the leaders of the Israelite community came to consult me about the LORD's will, and they sat down in front of me. 
I can't be responsible for all these people by myself; it's too much for me! 
They must thank the LORD for his constant love, : for the wonderful things he did for them. 
You are the judge of all; : rise and give the proud what they deserve! 
Then tell the people of Israel to take a male goat for a sin offering, a one-year-old calf, and a one-year-old lamb without any defects for a burnt offering, 
About a month later King Nahash of Ammon led his army against the town of Jabesh in the territory of Gilead and besieged it. The men of Jabesh said to Nahash, “Make a treaty with us, and we will accept you as our ruler.” 
then everyone living would die : and turn into dust again. 
Another time, a man came from Baal Shalishah, bringing Elisha twenty loaves of bread made from the first barley harvested that year, and some freshly-cut ears of corn. Elisha told his servant to feed the group of prophets with this, 
Was it the rivers that made you angry, LORD? : Was it the sea that made you furious? : You rode upon the clouds; : the storm cloud was your chariot, : as you brought victory to your people. 
As you meet together, and I meet with you in my spirit, by the power of our Lord Jesus present with us, 
Laban answered, “It is not the custom here to give the younger daughter in marriage before the elder. 
But the Lord Almighty tricked them; : he used a woman to stop them. 
Under them were 307,500 soldiers able to fight effectively for the king against his enemies. 
God brought them out of Egypt; : He fights for them like a wild ox. : They devour their enemies, : Crush their bones, smash their arrows. 
Then he took Paul and Silas up into his house and gave them some food to eat. He and his family were filled with joy, because they now believed in God. 
Your mighty deeds, O LORD, make me glad; : because of what you have done, I sing for joy. 
There are two olive trees beside the lampstand, one on each side of it.” 
My heart is pounding, my strength is gone, : and my eyes have lost their brightness. 
respect your father and your mother; and love your neighbour as you love yourself.” 
“Those who are angry with you : will know the shame of defeat. : Those who fight against you will die 
Don't visit your neighbours too often; they may get tired of you and come to hate you. 
And so the earth will quake, and everyone in the land will be in distress. The whole country will be shaken; it will rise and fall like the River Nile. 
Naomi took the child, held him close, and took care of him. 
harassment of innocent people, ingratitude, moral decay, sexual perversion, broken marriages, adultery, and immorality. 
Ishmael and the ten men with him pulled out their swords and killed Gedaliah. 
In this way God paid Abimelech back for the crime that he committed against his father in killing his seventy brothers. 
Avoid the passions of youth, and strive for righteousness, faith, love, and peace, together with those who with a pure heart call out to the Lord for help. 
You led your people like a shepherd, : with Moses and Aaron in charge.
Barak pursued the chariots and the army to Harosheth-of-the-Gentiles, and Sisera's whole army was killed. Not a man was left. 
Humility deserves honour and respect, but a low opinion of yourself leads to sin. 
This love I speak of means that we must live in obedience to God's commands. The command, as you have all heard from the beginning, is that you must all live in love. 
When they were young, living in Egypt, they lost their virginity and became prostitutes. 
“I will include Egypt and Babylonia : when I list the nations that obey me; : I will number among the inhabitants of Jerusalem : the people of Philistia, Tyre, and Ethiopia.” 
Jonah, however, set out in the opposite direction in order to get away from the LORD. He went to Joppa, where he found a ship about to go to Spain. He paid his fare and went aboard with the crew to sail to Spain, where he would be away from the LORD. 
Moses, Eleazar, and all the other leaders of the community went out of the camp to meet the army. 
Outside the Most Holy Place put the table against the north side of the Tent and the lampstand against the south side. 
I have not wanted anyone's silver or gold or clothing. 
Instead, be generous and lend him as much as he needs. 
I am God and always will be. : No one can escape from my power; : no one can change what I do.” 
He kept me from going to the world of the dead, : and I am still alive.” 
By the seventh month the people of Israel were all settled in their towns. On the first day of that month they all assembled in Jerusalem, in the square just inside the Water Gate. They asked Ezra, the priest and scholar of the Law which the LORD had given Israel through Moses, to get the book of the Law. 
When day came, the elders, the chief priests, and the teachers of the Law met together, and Jesus was brought before the Council. 
In the 36th year of the reign of King Asa of Judah, King Baasha of Israel invaded Judah and started to fortify Ramah in order to cut off all traffic in and out of Judah. 
“Listen to the terms of the covenant. Tell the people of Judah and of Jerusalem 
The LORD gave the following regulations to Moses. 
Always be ready to listen, but take your time in answering. 
to give the following orders to the people of Israel: Bring pure olive oil of the finest quality for the lamps in the Tent, so that a light may be kept burning regularly. 
It was Ezekiel who was shown the vision of the divine glory over the chariot and the living creatures. 
When the creatures moved, they could go in any direction without turning. They all moved together in the direction they wanted to go, without having to turn round. 
“This is none of your business,” the king said to Abishai and his brother Joab. “If he curses me because the LORD told him to, who has the right to ask why he does it?” 
But Jesus gave a deep groan and said, “Why do the people of this day ask for a miracle? No, I tell you! No such proof will be given to these people!” 
And the LORD said to himself, “I will not hide from Abraham what I am going to do. 
Listen! Throughout the land : I hear my people crying out, : “Is the LORD no longer in Zion? : Is Zion's king no longer there?” : The LORD, their king, replies, : “Why have you made me angry by worshipping your idols : and by bowing down to your useless foreign gods?” 
From the city of Sela in the desert the people of Moab send a lamb as a present to the one who rules in Jerusalem. 
We pray to God that you will do no wrong — not in order to show that we are a success, but so that you may do what is right, even though we may seem to be failures. 
and the LORD said to Moses and Aaron, 
Then Jesus spoke sternly to him and sent him away at once, 
Nor is it fitting for you to use language which is obscene, profane, or vulgar. Rather you should give thanks to God. 
You have taught me ever since I was young, : and I still tell of your wonderful acts. 
From Mount Hor to the plains of Moab the Israelites set up camp at the following places: Zalmonah, Punon, Oboth, the ruins of Abarim in the territory of Moab, Dibon Gad, Almon Diblathaim, the Abarim Mountains near Mount Nebo, and in the plains of Moab across the River Jordan from Jericho, between Beth Jeshimoth and the Valley of Acacia. 
he asked them, “Do you want me to set free for you the king of the Jews?” 
I looked everywhere for a place to settle, : some part of the world to make my home. 
Never hesitate to speak out when the occasion calls for it. Don't hide your wisdom.  
LORD, how happy are those you instruct, : the ones to whom you teach your law! 
They are to eat the bodies of soldiers and drink the blood of the rulers of the earth, all of whom will be killed like rams or lambs or goats or fat bulls. 
Then he said, ‘Come here and kill me! I have been badly wounded, and I'm about to die.’ 
and to register all the men between the ages of thirty and fifty who were qualified to work in the Tent of the LORD's presence. 
The poles are to be left in the rings and must not be taken out. 
But men younger than I am make fun of me now! : Their fathers have always been so worthless : that I wouldn't let them help my dogs guard sheep. 
Even before their time had come, : they were washed away by a flood. 
The meat must be eaten on the day the animal is killed or on the next day. Any meat left on the third day must be burnt, 
For even if you have 10,000 guardians in your Christian life, you have only one father. For in your life in union with Christ Jesus I have become your father by bringing the Good News to you. 
and the LORD appeared to them there in a pillar of cloud that stood by the door of the Tent. 
During the seven years of plenty the land produced abundant crops, 
It was the fifteenth year of the rule of the Emperor Tiberius; Pontius Pilate was governor of Judea, Herod was ruler of Galilee, and his brother Philip was ruler of the territory of Iturea and Trachonitis; Lysanias was ruler of Abilene, 
Ever since that time the people of the northern kingdom of Israel have been in rebellion against the dynasty of David.
My ambition has always been to proclaim the Good News in places where Christ has not been heard of, so as not to build on a foundation laid by someone else. 
You also saw that the feet and the toes were partly clay and partly iron. This means that it will be a divided empire. It will have something of the strength of iron, because there was iron mixed with the clay. 
They went back to these prostitutes again and again. They went back to Oholah and Oholibah, those immoral women. 
It will be your fate to die a violent death, because you did not answer when I called you or listen when I spoke. You chose to disobey me and do evil. 
So the people of the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh went back home. They left the rest of the people of Israel at Shiloh in the land of Canaan and started out for their own land, the land of Gilead, which they had taken as the LORD had commanded them through Moses. 
But your schemes have brought shame on your family; by destroying many nations you have only brought ruin on yourself. 
Any members of your family who die in the city will be eaten by dogs, and any who die in the open country will be eaten by vultures. I, the LORD, have spoken.’ ” 
For Christ died and rose to life in order to be the Lord of the living and of the dead. 
God sends earthquakes and shakes the ground; : he rocks the pillars that support the earth. 
He led you through that vast and terrifying desert where there were poisonous snakes and scorpions. In that dry and waterless land he made water flow out of solid rock for you. 
My dear children! Once again, just like a mother in childbirth, I feel the same kind of pain for you until Christ's nature is formed in you. 
Our wives and children and our cattle and sheep will remain here in the towns of Gilead. 
When Judah and his brothers came to Joseph's house, he was still there. They bowed down before him, 
Give thanks to the LORD, proclaim his greatness; : tell the nations what he has done. 
The men of Judah will fight to defend Jerusalem. They will take as loot the wealth of all the nations — gold, silver, and clothing in great abundance. 
How high is the sky? How wide is the earth? : How deep is the ocean? How profound is Wisdom? : Can anyone find answers to these questions? 
His fellow-servant fell down and begged him, ‘Be patient with me, and I will pay you back!’  
The man measured the thickness of the inner wall of the temple building, and it was three metres. Against this wall, all round the Temple, was a series of small rooms two metres wide. 
He threw himself to the ground at Jesus' feet and thanked him. The man was a Samaritan. 
He answered, “As you go into the city, a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him into the house that he enters,  
King Ahaz asked the emperor of Assyria, to send help. 
and he said to his men, “May the LORD keep me from doing any harm to my master, whom the LORD chose as king! I must not harm him in the least, because he is the king chosen by the LORD!” 
The Egyptians had refused to have anything to do with that man who, long before, as a baby, had been thrown out and exposed; but as things worked out, they ended by being amazed at him. The righteous never suffered a thirst like theirs. 
A priest shall not marry a woman who has been a prostitute or a woman who is not a virgin or who is divorced; he is holy. 
In the same way, a woman who divorces her husband and marries another man commits adultery.” 
They will die from hunger and fever; : they will die from terrible diseases. : I will send wild animals to attack them, : and poisonous snakes to bite them. 
“The time is coming,” says the LORD, “when I will gather together the people I punished, those who have suffered in exile. 
But evil people are like the restless sea, whose waves never stop rolling in, bringing filth and muck. 
Those in Judah who survive will flourish like plants that send roots deep into the ground and produce fruit. 
I stood between you and the LORD at that time to tell you what he said, because you were afraid of the fire and would not go up the mountain. : “The LORD said, 
Why should the Egyptians be able to say that you led your people out of Egypt, planning to kill them in the mountains and destroy them completely? Stop being angry; change your mind and do not bring this disaster on your people. 
times of spiritual strength will come from the Lord, and he will send Jesus, who is the Messiah he has already chosen for you. 
We know that what the scripture says is true for ever; and God called those people gods, the people to whom his message was given.  
They have crossed the pass and are spending the night at Geba! The people in the town of Ramah are terrified, and the people in King Saul's town of Gibeah have run away. 
John wore clothes made of camel's hair, with a leather belt round his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey. 
Whoever makes any like it or uses any of it on anyone who is not a priest will no longer be considered one of my people.’ ” 
I have never worshipped the sun in its brightness : or the moon in all its beauty. 
All things are in pairs, each the opposite of the other, : but nothing the Lord made is incomplete. 
But I had nearly lost confidence; : my faith was almost gone 
For God loved the world so much that he gave his only Son, so that everyone who believes in him may not die but have eternal life.  
So the people of this time will be punished for the murder of all the prophets killed since the creation of the world,  
As they approached Jerusalem, near the towns of Bethphage and Bethany, they came to the Mount of Olives. Jesus sent two of his disciples on ahead 
Aijalon, and Gathrimmon, with their pasture lands. 
On the ninth day of the fourth month of Zedekiah's eleventh year as king, the city walls were broken through. 
You have a choice between life and death; you will get whichever you choose. 
She said to the king, “What I heard in my own country about you and your wisdom is true! 
She said, “Your Majesty, please pray to the LORD your God, so that my relative who is responsible for avenging the death of my son will not commit a greater crime by killing my other son.” : “I promise by the living LORD,” David replied, “that your son will not be harmed in the least.” 
We grow and wither as quickly as flowers; : we disappear like shadows. 
The bronze which was dedicated to the LORD amounted to 2.425 tonnes. 
You will eat and drink at my table in my Kingdom, and you will sit on thrones to rule over the twelve tribes of Israel. 
A great number of people gathered in Jerusalem in the second month to celebrate the Festival of Unleavened Bread. 
When Abram heard that his nephew had been captured, he called together all the fighting men in his camp, 318 in all, and pursued the four kings all the way to Dan. 
he said to his relative, “Now that Naomi has come back from Moab, she wants to sell the field that belonged to our relative Elimelech, 
You have kept your promise, LORD, : and you are good to me, your servant. 
On her forehead was written a name that has a secret meaning: “Great Babylon, the mother of all the prostitutes and perverts in the world.” 
The Lord made the universe : and then gave wisdom to devout people.
As the LORD had commanded, they gave him the city he asked for: Timnath Serah, in the hill country of Ephraim. He rebuilt the city and settled there. 
If the young woman is not willing to come with you, you will be free from this promise. But you must not under any circumstances take my son back there.” 
Then I said, “Sovereign LORD, you know that the prophets are telling the people that there will be no war or starvation, because you have promised, they say, that there will be only peace in our land.” 
The daughter of Herodias came in and danced, and pleased Herod and his guests. So the king said to the girl, “What would you like to have? I will give you anything you want.” 
We who believe, then, do receive that rest which God promised. It is just as he said: : “I was angry and made a solemn promise: : ‘They will never enter the land where I would have given them rest!’ ” : He said this even though his work had been finished from the time he created the world. 
then the master will come back one day when the servant does not expect him and at a time he does not know. The master will cut him in pieces  and make him share the fate of the disobedient. 
I assure you that on the Judgement Day God will show more mercy to the people of Sodom and Gomorrah than to the people of that town! 
The Lord turned round and looked straight at Peter, and Peter remembered that the Lord had said to him, “Before the cock crows tonight, you will say three times that you do not know me.”  
It was the tribe of Judah, however, that became the strongest and provided a ruler for all the tribes.) 
And so the people sinned, going to worship in Bethel and in Dan.  
Tobit replied, “Gabael and I both signed a document. I then tore it in two, and we each took a half. I put his half with the money. That was twenty years ago! Now, go and find a reliable person to travel with you to Media and back, and we will pay him when you return. But you must get the money that I left with Gabael.” 
If you refuse good advice, you are asking for trouble; follow it and you are safe. 
He made carrying poles of acacia wood, covered them with gold, 
Treat wisdom as your sister, and insight as your closest friend. 
I am surprised at you! In no time at all you are deserting the one who called you by the grace of Christ, and are accepting another gospel. 
After some time Judah's wife died. When he had finished the time of mourning, he and his friend Hirah of Adullam went to Timnah, where his sheep were being sheared. 
But Aaron, unlike the rest of the people, was to inherit no land, no special portion of his own. The Lord himself would be all he needed. 
Then they sent for King Hezekiah, and three of his officials went out to meet them: Eliakim son of Hilkiah, who was in charge of the palace; Shebna, the court secretary; and Joah son of Asaph, who was in charge of the records. 
For six years Jehosheba took care of the boy and kept him hidden in the Temple, while Athaliah ruled as queen. 
It is better to be asked to take a higher position than to be told to give your place to someone more important. 
As Paul and Barnabas were leaving the synagogue, the people invited them to come back the next Sabbath and tell them more about these things. 
Tell us, then, what do you think? Is it against our Law to pay taxes to the Roman Emperor, or not?” 
When evening came, Jesus and his disciples left the city. 
People of Egypt, go to Gilead : and look for medicine! : All your medicine has proved useless; : nothing can heal you. 
The LORD made the Egyptians respect the people and give them what they asked for. In this way the Israelites carried away the wealth of the Egyptians. 
He shall not make himself unclean at the death of those related to him by marriage. 
“When a priest is ordained, the breast and the thigh of the ram being used for the ordination are to be dedicated to me as a special gift and set aside for the priests. 
So he gave them a solemn warning : that he would make them die in the desert 
Then Lot went to the men that his daughters were going to marry, and said, “Hurry up and get out of here; the LORD is going to destroy this place.” But they thought he was joking. 
The LORD says, : “Death to Babylonia! : Death to its people, : to its rulers, to its men of wisdom. 
And when all things are brought out to the light, then their true nature is clearly revealed; 
They covered the frames with gold and fitted them with gold rings to hold the crossbars, which were also covered with gold. 
The LORD was angry with Israel once more, and he made David bring trouble on them. The LORD said to him, “Go and count the people of Israel and Judah.” 
In the fourteenth year Chedorlaomer and his allies came with their armies and defeated the Rephaim in Ashteroth Karnaim, the Zuzim in Ham, the Emim in the plain of Kiriathaim, 
He gave Joseph the Egyptian name Zaphenath Paneah, and he gave him a wife, Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera, a priest in the city of Heliopolis. : Joseph was thirty years old when he began to serve the king of Egypt. He left the king's court and travelled all over the land. 
people have no more trust in a homeless person who sleeps in a different place every night than they have in a wandering thief who goes from town to town.
Timothy, my child, I entrust to you this command, which is in accordance with the words of prophecy spoken in the past about you. Use those words as weapons in order to fight well, 
Jesus answered, “Be quick about it, friend!” : Then they came up, arrested Jesus, and held him tight. 
Later he will judge the wicked and punish them; they will get what they deserve. 
He made the table out of acacia wood, 88 centimetres long, 44 centimetres wide, and 66 centimetres high. 
“One by one, people will say, ‘I am the LORD's.’ : They will come to join the people of Israel. : They will each mark the name of the LORD on their arms : and call themselves members of God's people.” 
When you get there, you will find that the people don't suspect a thing. It is a big country; it has everything a person could want, and God has given it to you.” 
“When Aaron enters the Holy Place, he will wear this breastpiece engraved with the names of the tribes of Israel, so that I, the LORD, will always remember my people. 
Protect your reputation; it will outlive you and last longer than a thousand treasures of gold. 
Clan of Zattu: Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, Jeremoth, Zabad, and Aziza 
Be merciful to me, LORD, and restore my health, : and I will pay my enemies back. 
They had three sons, Jeush, Shemariah, and Zaham. 
“Dan will be a ruler for his people. : They will be like the other tribes of Israel. 
Why then, my people, do you turn away from me without ever turning back? You cling to your idols and refuse to return to me. 
Tobit continued, “I will pay the normal daily wage plus expenses for both of you. 
You descendants of Jacob, God's servant, : descendants of Israel, whom God chose, : remember the miracles that God performed : and the judgements that he gave. 
This is good and it pleases God our Saviour, 
‘This man began to build but can't finish the job!’ they will say. 
The seeds that fell along the path stand for those who hear; but the Devil comes and takes the message away from their hearts in order to keep them from believing and being saved.  
The LORD answered, “The tribe of Judah will go first. I am giving them control of the land.” 
The Babylonians catch people with hooks, as though they were fish. They drag them off in nets and shout for joy over their catch! 
The Law was carved in letters on stone tablets, and God's glory appeared when it was given. Even though the brightness on Moses' face was fading, it was so strong that the people of Israel could not keep their eyes fixed on him. If the Law, which brings death when it is in force, came with such glory, 
“There are some things that the LORD our God has kept secret; but he has revealed his Law, and we and our descendants are to obey it for ever.
Then they came to a place called Marah, but the water there was so bitter that they could not drink it. That is why it was named Marah.  
I will make you and the woman hate each other; her offspring and yours will always be enemies. Her offspring will crush your head, and you will bite her offspring's heel.” 
Jesus heard them and answered, “People who are well do not need a doctor, but only those who are sick. I have not come to call respectable people, but outcasts.” 
We will obey you, just as we always obeyed Moses, and may the LORD your God be with you as he was with Moses! 
‘And for this reason a man will leave his father and mother and unite with his wife,  
Then he and Jonadab went in to offer sacrifices and burnt offerings to Baal. He had stationed eighty men outside the temple and had instructed them: “You are to kill all these people; anyone who lets one of them escape will pay for it with his life!” 
He made four carrying rings and put them on the four corners. 
“You have heard that it was said, ‘Love your friends, hate your enemies.’  
When the king saw Queen Esther standing outside, she won his favour, and he held out to her the gold sceptre. She then came up and touched the tip of it. 
I brought you out of Egypt; I rescued you from slavery; I sent Moses, Aaron, and Miriam to lead you. 
At noon the whole country was covered with darkness, which lasted for three hours. 
so that the person who serves God may be fully qualified and equipped to do every kind of good deed.
I will go with you to Egypt, and I will bring your descendants back to this land. Joseph will be with you when you die.” 
Philip found himself in Azotus; he went on to Caesarea, and on the way he preached the Good News in every town.
Two shoulder straps, by which it can be fastened, are to be attached to the sides. 
How awesome is God as he comes from his sanctuary — : the God of Israel! : He gives strength and power to his people. : Praise God!
Someone who will not learn will be poor and disgraced. Anyone who listens to correction is respected. 
And so I write to all of you in Rome whom God loves and has called to be his own people: : May God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peace. 
Daniel remained at the royal court until Cyrus the emperor of Persia conquered Babylonia.
Then my Creator, who created the universe, : told me where I was to live. : ‘Make your home in Israel,’ he said. : ‘The descendants of Jacob will be your people.’ 
When he was still a boy, he killed a giant to rescue his people. He put a stone in his sling, took aim, and put an end to Goliath's bragging. 
But now that they have returned to their god, they have come back home from the countries where they had been scattered. They have again taken possession of the city of Jerusalem, where their temple is, and have resettled in the mountains that had remained uninhabited. 
If a man brings a sheep as a sin offering, it must be a female without any defects. 
I thought that then my people would have reverence for me and accept my discipline, that they would never forget the lesson I taught them. But soon they were behaving as badly as ever. 
“These men are friendly; let them live in the land with us and travel freely. The land is large enough for them also. Let us marry their daughters and give them ours in marriage. 
Good people think before they answer. Evil people have a quick reply, but it causes trouble. 
The LORD says, “I will bring you lasting prosperity; the wealth of the nations will flow to you like a river that never goes dry. You will be like a child that is nursed by its mother, carried in her arms, and treated with love. 
People of Jerusalem, let these troubles be a warning to you, or else I will abandon you; I will turn your city into a desert, a place where no one lives.” 
(For the Sadducees say that people will not rise from death and that there are no angels or spirits; but the Pharisees believe in all three.) 
The LORD protects his people; : he defends and saves his chosen king. 
But I haven't made use of any of these rights, nor am I writing this now in order to claim such rights for myself. I would rather die first! Nobody is going to turn my rightful boast into empty words! 
Gaal saw them and said to Zebul, “Look! There are men coming down from the mountain tops!” : “Those are not men,” Zebul answered. “They are just shadows on the mountains.” 
He dug once again the wells which had been dug during the time of Abraham and which the Philistines had stopped up after Abraham's death. Isaac gave the wells the same names that his father had given them. 
“The LORD heard your complaints and became angry, and so he solemnly declared, 
He boasted to them how rich he was, how many sons he had, how the king had promoted him to high office, and how much more important he was than any of the king's other officials. 
those who have abandoned a righteous life to live in the darkness of sin, 
He must consult the one who bought him, and they must count the years from the time he sold himself until the next Year of Restoration and must set the price for his release on the basis of the wages paid to a hired servant. 
and had become the leader of a gang of outlaws. (This happened after David had defeated Hadadezer and had slaughtered his Syrian allies.) Rezon and his men went and lived in Damascus, where his men made him king of Syria. 
“Israel was once like a well-trained young cow, ready and willing to thresh grain. But I decided to put a yoke on her beautiful neck and to harness her for harder work. I made Judah pull the plough and Israel pull the harrow. 
So then, you should all examine yourselves first, and then eat the bread and drink from the cup. 
Their hair was like women's hair, their teeth were like lions' teeth. 
Give them to Eleazar the priest as a special contribution to the LORD. 
But if no one is there who can explain, then the one who speaks in strange tongues must be quiet and speak only to himself and to God. 
So Joseph's ten half-brothers went to buy corn in Egypt, 
Be joyful there in his presence, together with your children, your servants, and the Levites who live in your towns; remember that the Levites will have no land of their own. 
I will treat you with contempt : and cover you with filth. : People will stare at you in horror. 
When I saw how much food there was on the table, I said to Tobias, “My son, go out and find some fellow-Jew who is living in poverty here in exile, someone who takes God's commands seriously. Bring him back with you, so that he can share this festival meal with us. I won't start eating until you come back.” 
Under the orders of Sargon, emperor of Assyria, the commander-in-chief of the Assyrian army attacked the Philistine city of Ashdod. 
You govern many lands and are proud that so many people are under your rule, 
who will examine him again. If the sore has turned white, he is ritually clean, and the priest shall pronounce him clean. 
When Jesus finished saying these things, the crowd was amazed at the way he taught. 
Samuel said to the people, “Here is the man the LORD has chosen! There is no one else among us like him.” : All the people shouted, “Long live the king!” 
he destroyed their grapevines and fig trees : and broke down all the trees. 
What good is there in your saying to them, “God bless you! Keep warm and eat well!” — if you don't give them the necessities of life? 
(Philip was from Bethsaida, the town where Andrew and Peter lived.) 
Kohath's fourth son, Uzziel, had two sons, Micah and Isshiah. 
Listen to them, people of Israel, and obey them! Then all will go well with you, and you will become a mighty nation and live in that rich and fertile land, just as the LORD, the God of our ancestors, has promised. 
You must gather food for six days, but on the seventh day, the day of rest, there will be none.” 
Like the moon, I am full — full of more ideas to be discussed. 
Then the curtain hanging in the Temple was torn in two from top to bottom. The earth shook, the rocks split apart, 
Adamah, Ramah, Hazor, 
Palal son of Uzai built the next section, beginning at the corner of the wall and the tower of the upper palace near the court of the guard; : Pedaiah son of Parosh built the next section, to a point on the east near the Water Gate and the tower guarding the Temple. (This was near that part of the city called Ophel, where the temple workmen lived.) 
but you must not eat camels, rock-badgers, or rabbits. They must be considered unclean; they chew the cud, but do not have divided hoofs. 
Didn't you joke about Sodom in those days when you were proud 
When your oarsmen brought you out to sea, : An east wind wrecked you far from land. 
At one time King Jehoshaphat of Judah made an alliance with King Ahaziah of Israel, who did many wicked things. 
The wheels were like chariot wheels; their axles, rims, spokes, and hubs were all of bronze. 
There at the Temple, Solomon and all the people of Israel celebrated the Festival of Shelters for seven days. There was a huge crowd of people from as far away as Hamath Pass in the north and the Egyptian border in the south. 
The LORD said to Moses, 
Remain united to me, and I will remain united to you. A branch cannot bear fruit by itself; it can do so only if it remains in the vine. In the same way you cannot bear fruit unless you remain in me. 
All who are with me send you greetings. Give our greetings to our friends in the faith. : God's grace be with you all.
This is not the first time you have shown wisdom. Ever since you were a child, all of us have recognized the soundness and maturity of your judgement. 
Write, then, the things you see, both the things that are now and the things that will happen afterwards.  
“And when I broke the seven loaves for the 4,000 people,” asked Jesus, “how many baskets full of leftover pieces did you take up?” : “Seven,” they answered. 
A double disaster has fallen on you: : your land has been devastated by war, : and your people have starved. : There is no one to show you sympathy. 
But King Jehoash sent back the following reply: “Once a thorn bush on the Lebanon Mountains sent a message to a cedar: ‘Give your daughter in marriage to my son.’ A wild animal passed by and trampled the bush down. 
They were placed side by side in the Most Holy Place, so that two of their outstretched wings touched each other in the middle of the room, and the other two wings touched the walls. 
To make your brother repay you the money he owed, : you took away his clothes and left him nothing to wear. 
Here the kings of Israel : sat to judge their people. 
But the others said, “Wait, let us see if Elijah is coming to save him!” 
After spending some time there, they were sent off in peace by the believers and went back to those who had sent them. 
The governor read the letter and asked Paul what province he was from. When he found out that he was from Cilicia, 
because I have come down from heaven to do not my own will but the will of him who sent me.  
We arrived in the city of Syracuse and stayed there for three days. 
You can use harness and yoke to tame an animal, and a slave can be tortured in the stocks. 
Ahaziah died, as the LORD had said through Elijah. Ahaziah had no sons, so his brother Joram succeeded him as king in the second year of the reign of Jehoram son of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah. 
As soon as he said this, the Pharisees and Sadducees started to quarrel, and the group was divided. 
The woman said to him, “Sir, did I ask you for a son? Didn't I tell you not to raise my hopes?” 
One day when Joseph's brothers had gone to Shechem to take care of their father's flock, 
From the territory of West Manasseh they were given two cities: Taanach and Gathrimmon, with their pasture lands. 
As you have promised, keep me from falling; : don't let me be overcome by evil. 
Nor are all Abraham's descendants the children of God. God said to Abraham, “It is through Isaac that you will have the descendants I promised you.” 
David captured a thousand of his chariots, 7,000 horsemen, and 20,000 foot soldiers. He kept enough horses for a hundred chariots and crippled all the rest. 
Benaiah son of Jehoiada was in charge of David's bodyguard and David's sons were priests.
We are not like Moses, who had to put a veil over his face so that the people of Israel would not see the brightness fade and disappear. 
The Philistines brought all their troops together at Aphek, while the Israelites camped at the spring in the Valley of Jezreel. 
That is the fate of wicked people, : the fate of those who care nothing for God.
You have nothing to fear. I will take care of you and your children.” So he reassured them with kind words that touched their hearts. 
He covered it with all kinds of creatures : that must die and return to the dust.
They buried him on his own land at Timnath Serah in the hill country of Ephraim north of Mount Gaash. 
Praise the LORD! : Give thanks to the LORD, because he is good; : his love is eternal. 
Then after all this, the LORD brought on the king a painful disease of the intestines. 
God said to me, “Mortal man, do you see what is happening? Look at the disgusting things the people of Israel are doing here, driving me farther and farther away from my holy place. You will see even more disgraceful things than this.” 
For the full content of divine nature lives in Christ, in his humanity, 
Abraham approached the LORD and asked, “Are you really going to destroy the innocent with the guilty? 
The words came true immediately. Nebuchadnezzar was driven out of human society and ate grass like an ox. The dew fell on his body, and his hair grew as long as eagles' feathers and his nails as long as birds' claws. 
So the LORD sent an epidemic on Israel, which lasted from that morning until the time that he had chosen. From one end of the country to the other 70,000 Israelites died. 
Ambassadors will come from Egypt; : the Ethiopians will raise their hands in prayer to God. 
for the people of Israel. When any man has a discharge from his penis, the discharge is unclean, 
David asked God, “Shall I attack the Philistines? Will you give me the victory?” : The LORD answered, “Yes, attack! I will give you the victory!” 
Do not have intercourse with your uncle's wife; she, too, is your aunt. 
I understand more than all my teachers, : because I meditate on your instructions. 
“Where, Death, is your victory? : Where, Death, is your power to hurt?” 
For you know the instructions we gave you by the authority of the Lord Jesus. 
The people are to take some of the blood and put it on the doorposts and above the doors of the houses in which the animals are to be eaten. 
Knowledge is spread by people who are wise, not by fools. 
A man who obeys the LORD : will surely be blessed like this. 
as the younger men had advised. He said, “My father placed heavy burdens on you; I will make them even heavier. He beat you with a whip; I'll flog you with a horsewhip!” 
But the LORD, the God of Israel, gave the Israelites victory over Sihon and his army. So the Israelites took possession of all the territory of the Amorites who lived in that country. 
In the fourth year that Jehoiakim son of Josiah was king of Judah, I received a message from the LORD concerning all the people of Judah. (This was the first year that Nebuchadnezzar was king of Babylonia.) 
The six sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah. Under the direction of their father they proclaimed God's message, accompanied by the music of harps, and sang praise and thanks to the LORD. 
not a widow or a divorced woman or a woman who has been a prostitute. He shall marry only a virgin from his own clan. 
Everything that happens was already determined long ago, and we all know that you cannot argue with someone who is stronger than you are. 
So they went to see Zerubbabel and the heads of the clans and said, “Let us join you in building the Temple. We worship the same God you worship, and we have been offering sacrifices to him ever since Esarhaddon, emperor of Assyria, sent us here to live.” 
I will repeat aloud : all the laws you have given. 
But many who now are first will be last, and many who now are last will be first.” 
He went into the tent where Judith had stayed, but of course he did not find her. He rushed out and shouted to the officers, 
When the news reached the palace that Joseph's brothers had come, the king and his officials were pleased. 
The king said to Amasa, “Call the men of Judah together and be back here with them by the day after tomorrow.” 
On the fifth day of the tenth month of the twelfth year of our exile, someone who had escaped from Jerusalem came and told me that the city had fallen. 
the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers in space will be driven from their courses.  
When you please the LORD, you can make your enemies into friends. 
The LORD is with me, I will not be afraid; : what can anyone do to me? 
in the second row, an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond; 
Early the next morning Elisha's servant got up, went out of the house, and saw the Syrian troops with their horses and chariots surrounding the town. He went back to Elisha and exclaimed, “We are doomed, sir! What shall we do?” 
If the woman does not cover her head, she might as well cut her hair. And since it is a shameful thing for a woman to shave her head or cut her hair, she should cover her head. 
where the chief priests and the Jewish leaders brought their charges against Paul. They begged Festus 
If the man with the discharge spits on anyone who is ritually clean, that person must wash his clothes and have a bath, and he remains unclean until evening. 
There is hope for a tree that has been cut down; : it can come back to life and sprout. 
They offer sacrifices to me and eat the meat of the sacrifices. But I, the LORD, am not pleased with them, and now I will remember their sin and punish them for it; I will send them back to Egypt! 
The dead person's nearest relative has the responsibility for putting the murderer to death. When he finds him, he is to kill him. 
Your ancestors ate manna in the desert, but they died.  
Tell him that the LORD Almighty says, ‘The man who is called The Branch will flourish where he is and rebuild the LORD's Temple. 
Through his servants the prophets the LORD said, 
The people were pleased with the suggestion and agreed to it. 
He breaks off every branch in me that does not bear fruit, and he prunes every branch that does bear fruit, so that it will be clean and bear more fruit.  
And so it was appropriate that these people were punished by such creatures — tormented by swarms of them. 
The world of the dead is hungry for them, and it opens its mouth wide. It gulps down the nobles of Jerusalem along with the noisy crowd of common people. 
LORD, have you completely rejected Judah? : Do you hate the people of Zion? : Why have you hurt us so badly : that we cannot be healed? : We looked for peace, but nothing good happened; : we hoped for healing, but terror came instead. 
Do you see that little town? It is near enough. Let me go over there — you can see it is just a small place — and I will be safe.” 
But the godless continued to feel your pitiless anger until the very end. You knew what they would do before they did it. 
So now listen to what I, the Sovereign LORD, say to you mountains and hills, to you brooks and valleys, to you places that were left in ruins, and to you deserted cities which were plundered and mocked by all the surrounding nations. 
“Some say that you are John the Baptist,” they answered; “others say that you are Elijah, while others say that you are one of the prophets.” 
Six branches shall extend from its sides, three from each side. 
Abner called out to Joab, “Do we have to go on fighting for ever? Can't you see that in the end there will be nothing but bitterness? We are your fellow-countrymen. How long will it be before you order your men to stop chasing us?” 
So he sent a messenger to find out who she was, and learnt that she was Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam and the wife of Uriah the Hittite. 
Before sunrise I call to you for help; : I place my hope in your promise. 
John spoke about him. He cried out, “This is the one I was talking about when I said, ‘He comes after me, but he is greater than I am, because he existed before I was born.’ ” 
Don't be concerned about what you need, or what success the future holds for you. 
King Hanun and the Ammonites realized that they had made David their enemy, so they paid 34 tonnes of silver to hire chariots and charioteers from Upper Mesopotamia and from the Syrian states of Maacah and Zobah. 
King Solomon was richer and wiser than any other king, 
I tell the wicked not to be arrogant; 
and reported to Moses, “The people are bringing more than is needed for the work which the LORD commanded to be done.” 
So Jacob sent word to Rachel and Leah to meet him in the field where his flocks were. 
Abner spoke also to the people of the tribe of Benjamin and then went to Hebron to tell David what the people of Benjamin and of Israel had agreed to do. 
Sin must not be your master; for you do not live under law but under God's grace. 
but because he has a physical defect, he shall not come near the sacred curtain or approach the altar. He must not profane these holy things, because I am the LORD and I make them holy.” 
and they said to Samuel, “Please, sir, pray to the LORD your God for us, so that we won't die. We now realize that, besides all our other sins, we have sinned by asking for a king.” 
All who hate me whisper to each other about me, : they imagine the worst about me. 
I am acting like a fool — but you have made me do it. You are the ones who ought to show your approval of me. For even if I am nothing, I am in no way inferior to those very special “apostles” of yours. 
When our enemies in the surrounding nations heard this, they realized that they had lost face, since everyone knew that the work had been done with God's help. 
My Sovereign LORD, my strong defender, : you have protected me in battle. 
The priest said, “I haven't any ordinary bread, only sacred bread; you can have it if your men haven't had sexual relations recently.” 
This is the order in which the 24 family groups were given their assignments
eat it the same day and leave none of it until the next morning. 
These are the men the LORD chose: :  :  : Judah : Caleb son of Jephunneh : Simeon : Shelumiel son of Ammihud : Benjamin : Elidad son of Chislon : Dan : Bukki son of Jogli : Manasseh : Hanniel son of Ephod : Ephraim : Kemuel son of Shiphtan : Zebulun : Elizaphan son of Parnach : Issachar : Paltiel son of Azzan : Asher : Ahihud son of Shelomi : Naphtali : Pedahel son of Ammihud 
But Jesus kept quiet and would not say a word. Again the High Priest questioned him, “Are you the Messiah, the Son of the Blessed God?” 
He looks down on even the proudest animals; : he is king of all wild beasts.
So then, whoever disobeys even the least important of the commandments and teaches others to do the same, will be least in the Kingdom of heaven. On the other hand, whoever obeys the Law and teaches others to do the same, will be great in the Kingdom of heaven.  
You told me to listen while you spoke : and to try to answer your questions. 
Then Moses recited the entire song while all the people of Israel listened.
and said in a loud voice, “You are the most blessed of all women, and blessed is the child you will bear! 
and up through the Valley of Hinnom on the south side of the hill where the Jebusite city of Jerusalem was located. The border then proceeded up to the top of the hill on the west side of the Valley of Hinnom, at the northern end of the Valley of Rephaim. 
They will attack every town in the land that the LORD your God is giving you, and the high, fortified walls in which you trust will fall. 
But if you defy me, you are doomed to die. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
As Moses had commanded, they kept what was left until the next day; it did not spoil or get worms in it. 
Yes, my children, remain in union with him, so that when he appears we may be full of courage and need not hide in shame from him on the Day he comes. 
The LORD said to me, “Jeremiah, when one of my people or a prophet or a priest asks you, ‘What is the LORD's message?’ you are to tell him, ‘You are a burden to the LORD, and he is going to get rid of you.’ 
it will blow down on them without pity : while they try their best to escape. 
Nibshan, the city of Salt, and Engedi: six cities, along with the towns round them. 
The priests shall eat the rest of it. It shall be made into bread baked without yeast and eaten in a holy place, the courtyard of the Tent of the LORD's presence. The LORD has given it to the priests as their part of the food offerings. It is very holy, like the sin offerings and the repayment offerings. 
Listen to me, distant nations, : you people who live far away! : Before I was born, the LORD chose me : and appointed me to be his servant. 
“In the first year of his reign Cyrus the emperor commanded that the Temple in Jerusalem be rebuilt as a place where sacrifices are made and offerings are burnt. The Temple is to be 27 metres high and 27 metres wide. 
On the basis of David's final instructions all Levites were registered for service when they reached the age of twenty, 
Benhadad said to him, “I will restore to you the towns my father took from your father, and you may set up a commercial centre for yourself in Damascus, just as my father did in Samaria.” : Ahab replied, “On these terms, then, I will set you free.” He made a treaty with him and let him go. 
to say to the community of Israel, “Be holy, because I, the LORD your God, am holy. 
None of the grain offerings which you present to the LORD may be made with yeast; you must never use yeast or honey in food offered to the LORD. 
Doeg was standing there with Saul's officers, and he said, “I saw David when he went to Ahimelech son of Ahitub in Nob. 
Only someone with no sense would promise to be responsible for someone else's debts. 
“I will give warnings of that day : in the sky and on the earth; : there will be bloodshed, fire, and clouds of smoke. 
Then Isaac said to him, : “No dew from heaven for you, : No fertile fields for you. 
So be happy with your wife and find your joy with the woman you married — 
You see me, whether I am working or resting; : you know all my actions. 
Thank God for your good sense and for what you have done today in keeping me from the crime of murder and from taking my own revenge. 
They reported to the king the total number of men capable of military service: 800,000 in Israel and 500,000 in Judah. 
Then they set fire to the city and burnt it to the ground, along with everything in it, except the things made of gold, silver, bronze, and iron, which they took and put in the LORD's treasury. 
The LORD says, “The people of Edom have sinned again and again, and for this I will certainly punish them. They hunted down their relatives, the Israelites, and showed them no mercy. Their anger had no limits, and they never let it die. 
The LORD commanded Moses 
The middle crossbar, set halfway up the frames, is to extend from one end of the Tent to the other. 
Manasseh died and was buried at the palace, and his son Amon succeeded him as king. 
Now, our God, we give you thanks, and we praise your glorious name. 
Caleb had a concubine named Ephah, and by her he had three more sons: Haran, Moza, and Gazez. Haran also had a son named Gazez. 
Remember that it is the LORD your God who gives you the power to become rich. He does this because he is still faithful today to the covenant that he made with your ancestors. 
They found the stone rolled away from the entrance to the tomb, 
Then he said to her, “Bring the cakes here to my bed and serve them to me yourself.” She took the cakes and went over to him. 
The apostles obeyed, and at dawn they entered the Temple and started teaching. : The High Priest and his companions called together all the Jewish elders for a full meeting of the Council; then they sent orders to the prison to have the apostles brought before them. 
I will remember my covenant with Jacob and with Isaac and with Abraham, and I will renew my promise to give my people the land. 
There by the Ahava Canal I gave orders for us all to fast and humble ourselves before our God and to ask him to lead us on our journey and protect us and our children and all our possessions. 
But the Babylonian army pursued King Zedekiah, captured him in the plains near Jericho, and all his soldiers deserted him. 
But Gedaliah answered, “Don't do it! What you are saying about Ishmael is not true!”
their secret thoughts will be brought into the open, and they will bow down and worship God, confessing, “Truly God is here among you!” 
The LORD says, “I hate your religious festivals; I cannot stand them! 
He took his men with him and pursued Jacob for seven days until he caught up with him in the hill country of Gilead. 
Then they went on through the desert, going round the land of Edom and the land of Moab until they came to the east side of Moab, on the other side of the River Arnon. They made camp there, but they did not cross the Arnon because it was the boundary of Moab. 
Think carefully before you promise an offering to God. You might regret it later. 
But if that person has died and has no near relative to whom payment can be made, it shall be given to the LORD for the priest. This payment is in addition to the ram used to perform the ritual of purification for the guilty person. 
Fire tests gold and silver; a person's reputation can also be tested. 
as we wait for the blessed Day we hope for, when the glory of our great God and Saviour Jesus Christ will appear. 
A stone was put over the mouth of the pit, and the king placed his own royal seal and the seal of his noblemen on the stone, so that no one could rescue Daniel. 
show the same kind of loyalty to my family for ever. And when the LORD has completely destroyed all your enemies, 
After going through the territory of Pisidia, they came to Pamphylia. 
God provides that seed with the body he wishes; he gives each seed its own proper body. 
and when I went to Jerusalem, the Jewish chief priests and elders brought charges against him and asked me to condemn him. 
Job began speaking again. 
He has placed fire and water before you; reach out and take whichever you want. 
Then he and his men marched into battle against the Philistines, who were fighting each other in complete confusion. 
“Now then, this is what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying: I am your enemy, city of Tyre. I will bring many nations to attack you, and they will come like the waves of the sea. 
Your home is the sea. : Your builders made you like a beautiful ship; 
“If only you had listened to my commands! : Then blessings would have flowed for you : like a stream that never goes dry! : Victory would have come to you : like the waves that roll on the shore. 
Don't take pleasure in the things that make ungodly people happy; remember that they will be held guilty as long as they live. 
He is also the father of those who are circumcised, that is, of those who, in addition to being circumcised, also live the same life of faith that our father Abraham lived before he was circumcised. 
Even lions go hungry for lack of food, : but those who obey the LORD lack nothing good. 
You have plundered the people of many nations, but now those who have survived will plunder you because of the murders you have committed and because of your violence against the people of the world and its cities. 
The men of the city, yes, even the strongest men, will be killed in war. 
Others, who had been hiding in the hills of Ephraim, heard that the Philistines were running away, so they also joined in and attacked the Philistines, 
Again Peter denied it and answered, “I swear that I don't know that man!” 
Samuel asked, “Why, then, do I hear cattle mooing and sheep bleating?” 
Be very humble, because the decay of death awaits us all. 
Next day the crowd which had stayed on the other side of the lake realized that there had been only one boat there. They knew that Jesus had not gone in it with his disciples, but that they had left without him. 
The LORD says, : “But you were tired of me, Israel; : you did not worship me. 
Then Elkanah went back home to Ramah, but the boy Samuel stayed in Shiloh and served the LORD under the priest Eli. 
(These are the things the pagans are always concerned about.) Your Father in heaven knows that you need all these things.  
You must keep the day of rest, because it is sacred. Whoever does not keep it, but works on that day, is to be put to death. 
The following is a list of the priests and Levites who returned from exile with Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel and with the High Priest Joshua
I will scatter your people to every country and nation and will put an end to your evil actions. 
May those who want to see me acquitted : shout for joy and say again and again, : “How great is the LORD! : He is pleased with the success of his servant.” 
But Saul tried to destroy the church; going from house to house, he dragged out the believers, both men and women, and threw them into jail. 
I am Tobit and this is the story of my life. My father was Tobiel, my grandfather was Ananiel, and my great-grandfather was Aduel. Aduel's father was Gabael; his grandfather was Raphael; and his great-grandfather was Raguel, who belonged to the clan of Asiel, a part of the tribe of Naphtali. 
The angel wearing linen clothes said, “At that time the great angel Michael, who guards your people, will appear. Then there will be a time of troubles, the worst since nations first came into existence. When that time comes, all the people of your nation whose names are written in God's book will be saved. 
Offer a burnt offering as a smell pleasing to the LORD: two young bulls, one ram, and seven one-year-old male lambs, all without any defects. 
“When they bring you to be tried in the synagogues or before governors or rulers, do not be worried about how you will defend yourself or what you will say.  
He made his nation strong, : so that all his people praise him — : the people of Israel, so dear to him. : Praise the LORD!
On top of them were other stones, cut to measure, and cedar beams. 
Those who fear and love the Lord will try to please him and devote themselves to the Law. 
He shall put his hand on its head and kill it on the north side of the altar, where the animals for the burnt offerings are killed. This is an offering to take away sin. 
Then he ordered Prince Jerahmeel, together with Seraiah son of Azriel and Shelemiah son of Abdeel, to arrest me and my secretary Baruch. But the LORD had hidden us. 
He knew very well that the chief priests had handed Jesus over to him because they were jealous. 
Do not disregard what the wise have said. Study their proverbs; from them you can learn to be cultured and to serve great people. 
Get all the advice you can, and you will succeed; without it you will fail. 
Obey faithfully everything that I have commanded you, and all will go well for you and your descendants for ever, because you will be doing what is right and what pleases the LORD your God. 
There is a real opportunity here for great and worthwhile work, even though there are many opponents. 
I will send enemies to cut down my people's vineyards, : but not to destroy them completely. : I will tell them to strip away the branches, : because those branches are not mine. 
and he began to teach them
I am weak and poor, O Lord, : but you have not forgotten me. : You are my saviour and my God — : hurry to my aid!
The LORD is in his holy Temple; let everyone on earth be silent in his presence.
How could I ever hold up my head in public again? And you — you would be completely disgraced in Israel. Please, speak to the king, and I'm sure that he will give me to you.” 
You know about Jesus of Nazareth and how God poured out on him the Holy Spirit and power. He went everywhere, doing good and healing all who were under the power of the Devil, for God was with him. 
And everywhere Jesus went, to villages, towns, or farms, people would take those who were ill to the market places and beg him to let them at least touch the edge of his cloak; and all who touched it were made well.
A prophet named Elijah, from Tishbe in Gilead, said to King Ahab, “In the name of the LORD, the living God of Israel, whom I serve, I tell you that there will be no dew or rain for the next two or three years until I say so.” 
I will make the people of Elam afraid of their enemies, who want to kill them. In my great anger I will destroy the people of Elam and send armies against them until I have wiped them out. 
King Ahaziah saw what happened, so he fled in his chariot towards the town of Beth Haggan, pursued by Jehu. “Kill him too!” Jehu ordered his men, and they wounded him as he drove his chariot on the road up to Gur, near the town of Ibleam. But he managed to keep going until he reached the city of Megiddo, where he died. 
One day Zechariah was doing his work as a priest in the Temple, taking his turn in the daily service. 
They have hands, but cannot feel, : and feet, but cannot walk; : they cannot make a sound. 
There were 550 officials in charge of the forced labour working on Solomon's various building projects. 
He did this to prepare all God's people for the work of Christian service, in order to build up the body of Christ. 
I cried bitterly because no one could be found who was worthy to open the scroll or look inside it. 
A man who lived there asked, “How about these other prophets — who do you think their fathers are?” This is how the saying originated, “Has even Saul become a prophet?” 
The king stood up, tore his clothes in sorrow, and threw himself to the ground. The servants who were there with him tore their clothes also. 
Your instructions give me pleasure; : they are my advisers. 
If Esau's descendants, the Edomites, say, “Our towns have been destroyed, but we will rebuild them,” then the LORD will reply, “Let them rebuild — I will tear them down again. People will call them ‘The evil country’ and ‘The nation with whom the LORD is angry for ever.’ ” 
Suddenly the LORD sent fire, and it burnt them to death there in the presence of the LORD. 
Jehu left Jezreel to go to Samaria. On the way, at a place called “Shepherds' Camp”, 
LORD, you have given us your laws : and told us to obey them faithfully. 
It is good to be able to enjoy the pleasant light of day. 
A second time they called back the man who had been born blind, and said to him, “Promise before God that you will tell the truth! We know that this man who cured you is a sinner.” 
The men who were guarding Jesus mocked him and beat him. 
They travelled to all the cities of Judah and brought back with them to Jerusalem the Levites and all the heads of the clans. 
But then they will be terrified, : as they have never been before, : for God will scatter the bones of the enemies of his people. : God has rejected them, : and so Israel will totally defeat them. 
Job, have you ever in all your life : commanded a day to dawn? 
The Philistine troops assembled and camped near the town of Shunem; Saul gathered the Israelites and camped at Mount Gilboa. 
But Christ is faithful as the Son in charge of God's house. We are his house if we keep up our courage and our confidence in what we hope for. 
However, the command I am now writing to you is new, because its truth is seen in Christ and also in you. For the darkness is passing away, and the real light is already shining. 
A Jewish leader asked Jesus, “Good Teacher, what must I do to receive eternal life?” 
You will grope about in broad daylight like a blind person, and you will not be able to find your way. You will not prosper in anything you do. You will be constantly oppressed and robbed, and there will be no one to help you. 
Each day for seven days you are to offer a goat, a bull, and a ram as sacrifices for sin. All of them must be without any defects. 
I found out that he had not done anything for which he deserved to die or be put in prison; the accusation against him had to do with questions about their own law. 
The members of Jacob's family who went to Egypt with him were his eldest son Reuben 
The chief official gave them new names: Belteshazzar, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. 
Abraham said, “Please don't be angry, Lord, but I must speak again. What if there are only thirty?” : He said, “I will not do it if I find thirty.” 
If she has committed adultery, the water will cause bitter pain; her stomach will swell up and her genital organs will shrink. Her name will become a curse among her people. 
take notice of the walls and examine the fortresses, : so that you may tell the next generation
Now I am going to bring them out of the places to which you have sold them. I will do to you what you have done to them. 
It was some time later that the Ammonites went to war against Israel. 
“Prophets or interpreters of dreams may promise a miracle or a wonder, 
You have to hate someone to want to hurt him with lies. Insincere talk brings nothing but ruin.
in you, my God, I trust. : Save me from the shame of defeat; : don't let my enemies gloat over me! 
(The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were over.) This is the first raising of the dead. 
Turn your anger on the nations that do not worship you : and on the people who reject you. : They have killed your people; : they have destroyed us completely : and left our country in ruins.
You can know people by their appearance. The first time you look at them, you can tell if they have good sense. 
I am the LORD who brought you out of Egypt so that I could be your God. You must be holy, because I am holy. 
Jair, of the tribe of Manasseh, attacked and captured some villages and named them “Villages of Jair”. 
(But hail will fall on the forests, and the city will be torn down.) 
It then went west to the area of the Japhletites, as far as the area of Lower Beth Horon. It went on from there to Gezer and ended at the Mediterranean Sea. 
A person uses part of a tree for fuel and part of it for making an idol. With one part he builds a fire to warm himself and bake bread; with the other part he makes a god and worships it. 
The servant who had received 5,000 coins came in and handed over the other 5,000. ‘You gave me 5,000 coins, sir,’ he said. ‘Look! Here are another 5,000 that I have earned.’  
Tell me, what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes indeed, but you saw much more than a prophet.  
Then the Devil came to him and said, “If you are God's Son, order these stones to turn into bread.” 
Whether such men are rich or poor, they will be happy and always look cheerful. 
When I did not answer, Nebuzaradan said, “Go back to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam and grandson of Shaphan, whom the king of Babylonia has made governor of the towns of Judah. You may stay with him and live among the people, or you may go anywhere you think you should.” Then he gave me a present and some food to take with me, and let me go on my way. 
If the offering is bread baked in an oven, it must be made without yeast. It may be thick loaves made of flour mixed with olive oil or biscuits brushed with olive oil. 
and he will go out to deceive the nations scattered over the whole world, that is, Gog and Magog. Satan will bring them all together for battle, as many as the grains of sand on the seashore. 
Sexual immorality began when idols were invented. They have corrupted human life ever since they were first made. 
Joshua attacked and captured Makkedah and its king that day. He put everyone in the city to death; no one was left alive. He did to the king of Makkedah what he had done to the king of Jericho. 
Commander of the army: Benaiah son of Jehoiada : Priests: Zadok and Abiathar 
We will never turn away from you again; : keep us alive, and we will praise you. 
But evil people are doomed; what they have done to others will now be done to them. 
How can you be sure, Christian wife, that you will not save your husband? Or how can you be sure, Christian husband, that you will not save your wife? 
They were screaming, waving their clothes, and throwing dust up in the air. 
Jehoram died and was buried in the royal tombs in David's City, and his son Ahaziah succeeded him as king. 
“Go and call your husband,” Jesus told her, “and come back.” 
When Moses went into the Tent to talk with the LORD, he heard the LORD speaking to him from above the lid on the Covenant Box, between the two winged creatures.
and their people will say, : “Let us go up the hill of the LORD, : to the Temple of Israel's God. : He will teach us what he wants us to do; : we will walk in the paths he has chosen. : For the LORD's teaching comes from Jerusalem; : from Zion he speaks to his people.” 
The mountains will shake, and the foundations of the earth will shudder when he looks at them. 
Absalom and all the Israelites said, “Hushai's advice is better than Ahithophel's.” The LORD had decided that Ahithophel's good advice would not be followed, so that disaster would come on Absalom. 
How happy they are if he finds them ready, even if he should come at midnight or even later!  
But Abimelech had not come near her, and he said, “Lord, I am innocent! Would you destroy me and my people? 
People will come from the east and the west, from the north and the south, and sit down at the feast in the Kingdom of God.  
He sends storms to batter and bruise me : without any reason at all. 
The king made two columns, each one 15.5 metres tall, and placed them in front of the Temple. Each one had a capital 2.2 metres tall. 
From Jacob's descendants the Lord raised up a godly man who won the favour of everyone, loved by God and human beings alike. This man was Moses, whose very memory is a blessing. 
It will be his duty to provide the animals to be burnt whole, the grain offerings, and the wine offerings for the whole nation of Israel at the New Moon Festivals, the Sabbaths, and the other festivals. He is to provide the sin offerings, the grain offerings, the offerings to be burnt whole, and the fellowship offerings, to take away the sins of the people of Israel.” 
And when the LORD has done all the good things he has promised you and has made you king of Israel, 
The LORD's anger is a storm, a furious wind that will rage over the heads of the wicked. It will not end until he has done all that he intends to do. In days to come his people will understand this clearly.
The priest shall bring the woman forward and make her stand in front of the altar. 
I will let your waters settle and become clear and let your rivers run calm. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken. 
On the first day of the third month of the eleventh year of our exile, the LORD spoke to me. 
So the people of Dan chose five qualified men out of all the families in the tribe and sent them from the towns of Zorah and Eshtaol with instructions to explore the land. When they arrived in the hill country of Ephraim, they stayed at Micah's house. 
Then Abel brought the first lamb born to one of his sheep, killed it, and gave the best parts of it as an offering. The LORD was pleased with Abel and his offering, 
You are guilty of those murders and are defiled by the idols you made, and so your day is coming, your time is up! That is why I have let the nations mock you and all the countries sneer at you. 
They said to him, “This is your chance! The LORD has told you that he would put your enemy in your power and you could do to him whatever you wanted to.” David crept over and cut off a piece of Saul's robe without Saul's knowing it. 
Can you shout orders to the clouds : and make them drench you with rain? 
So Moses sent a command throughout the camp that no one was to make any further contribution for the sacred Tent; so the people did not bring any more. 
Jesus also told this parable to people who were sure of their own goodness and despised everybody else. 
He sacrificed 22,000 head of cattle and 120,000 sheep as fellowship offerings. And so the king and all the people dedicated the Temple. 
Make linen shorts for them, reaching from the waist to the thighs, so that they will not expose themselves. 
If a woman has a flow of blood for several days outside her monthly period or if her flow continues beyond her regular period, she remains unclean as long as the flow continues, just as she is during her monthly period. 
I will destroy your places of worship on the hills, tear down your incense altars, and throw your dead bodies on your fallen idols. In utter disgust 
When they die, they return to the dust; : on that day all their plans come to an end. 
Then put in the box the two stone tablets that I will give you, on which the commandments are written. 
you may see among them a beautiful woman that you like and want to marry. 
“Eleazar the priest and Joshua son of Nun will divide the land for the people. 
They all call out to him, ‘Now you are as weak as we are! You are one of us! 
This is all that I have learnt: God made us plain and simple, but we have made ourselves very complicated.
There is the ocean, large and wide, : where countless creatures live, : large and small alike. 
So he stood at the gate of the camp and shouted, “Everyone who is on the LORD's side come over here!” So all the Levites gathered round him, 
If they do not change their ways, : God will sharpen his sword. : He bends his bow and makes it ready; 
These are other heads of families descended from Levi: : Jehdeiah, a descendant of Amram through Shebuel; 
There is no arrow that can make him run; : rocks thrown at him are like bits of straw. 
You said that your children would be captured, but I will bring them into the land that you rejected, and it will be their home. 
Yes, Father, this was how you wanted it to happen. 
Rich people, however, imagine that their wealth protects them like high, strong walls round a city. 
You are righteous, and you rule everything righteously. You have never used your power to condemn a person who does not deserve to be punished. 
As Moses lifted up the bronze snake on a pole in the desert, in the same way the Son of Man must be lifted up,  
“ ‘God's curse on anyone who disgraces his father by having intercourse with any of his father's wives.’ : “And all the people will answer, ‘Amen!’ 
I know a certain Christian man who fourteen years ago was snatched up to the highest heaven (I do not know whether this actually happened or whether he had a vision — only God knows). 
They wandered from country to country, : from one kingdom to another. 
“Eat and drink something first and enjoy yourself this evening. You have the right to marry Sarah, and I cannot let anyone else marry her, because you are my closest relative. But I must tell you the truth, my son. 
They have tails and stings like those of a scorpion, and it is with their tails that they have the power to hurt people for five months. 
If people are tempted by such trials, they must not say, “This temptation comes from God.” For God cannot be tempted by evil, and he himself tempts no one. 
Then Moses brought the second ram, which was for the ordination of priests, and Aaron and his sons put their hands on its head. 
Suppose a person whose conscience is weak in this matter sees you, who have so-called “knowledge”, eating in the temple of an idol; will not this encourage him to eat food offered to idols? 
If these men die a natural death without some punishment from God, then the LORD did not send me. 
And the tongue is like a fire. It is a world of wrong, occupying its place in our bodies and spreading evil through our whole being. It sets on fire the entire course of our existence with the fire that comes to it from hell itself. 
Then Shalmaneser invaded Israel and besieged Samaria. In the third year of the siege, 
the following instructions for Israel: “When you cross the Jordan into the land of Canaan, 
I pursue my enemies and defeat them; : I do not stop until I destroy them. 
What more can I say to you! You know me well, and yet you honour me, your servant. 
So there in front of you I threw the stone tablets down and broke them to pieces. 
When Enoch was 65, he had a son, Methuselah. 
Your proud nation will stumble and fall, and no one will help you up. I will set your cities on fire, and everything around will be destroyed.” 
You will not be afraid when you go to bed, and you will sleep soundly through the night. 
As smoke is blown away, so he drives them off; : as wax melts in front of the fire, : so do the wicked perish in God's presence. 
to ask the men of Shechem, “Which would you prefer? To be governed by all seventy of Gideon's sons or by just one man? Remember that Abimelech is your own flesh and blood.” 
And Ahijah went on to say to Jeroboam's wife, “Now go back home. As soon as you enter the town your son will die. 
Justice is driven away, and right cannot come near. Truth stumbles in the public square, and honesty finds no place there. 
Yet you left us helpless among wild animals; : you abandoned us in deepest darkness. 
We must not be proud or irritate one another or be jealous of one another.
“So then, someone must join us as a witness to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. He must be one of the men who were in our group during the whole time that the Lord Jesus travelled about with us, beginning from the time John preached his message of baptism until the day Jesus was taken up from us to heaven.” 
He returned once more and found the disciples asleep; they could not keep their eyes open. 
Never tell your neighbours to wait until tomorrow if you can help them now. 
He follows in pursuit and marches safely on, : so fast that he hardly touches the ground! 
They replied, “What miracle will you perform so that we may see it and believe you? What will you do? 
“Also, the Kingdom of heaven is like this. Some fishermen throw their net out in the lake and catch all kinds of fish.  
The sons of Midian were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were Keturah's descendants. 
and every firstborn son in Egypt will die, from the king's son, who is heir to the throne, to the son of the slave woman who grinds corn. The firstborn of all the cattle will die also. 
the priest shall order two ritually clean birds to be brought, together with a piece of cedar wood, a red cord, and a sprig of hyssop. 
But if we confess our sins to God, he will keep his promise and do what is right: he will forgive us our sins and purify us from all our wrongdoing. 
“Soldiers from Persia, Lydia, and Libya served in your army. They hung their shields and their helmets in your barracks. They are the men who won glory for you. 
Their prejudices will be held against them. They sin as openly as the people of Sodom did. They are doomed, and they have brought it on themselves. 
He never uses a heavy club to beat out dill seeds or cumin seeds; instead he uses light sticks of the proper size. 
“I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken out in the heat of my anger against the surrounding nations, and especially against Edom. With glee and contempt, they captured my land and took possession of its pastures. 
Make every nation stand in fear of you. 
We, the people of Israel, the priests, the Levites, the temple guards, the temple musicians, the temple workmen, and all others who in obedience to God's Law have separated themselves from the foreigners living in our land, we, together with our wives and all our children old enough to understand, 
“I will not go back with you,” Samuel answered. “You rejected the LORD's command, and he has rejected you as king of Israel.” 
These people are like dried-up springs, like clouds blown along by a storm; God has reserved a place for them in the deepest darkness. 
and everyone who wished to do so brought an offering to the LORD for making the Tent of the LORD's presence. They brought everything needed for use in worship and for making the priestly garments. 
But they answered, “We do not drink wine. Our ancestor Jonadab son of Rechab told us that neither we nor our descendants were ever to drink any wine. 
Manasseh was twelve years old when he became king of Judah, and he ruled in Jerusalem for 55 years. His mother was Hephzibah. 
There are different ways of serving, but the same Lord is served. 
He was completely loyal to the Lord and strengthened true religion in those wicked times. 
The LORD said to me, ‘Don't trouble the people of Moab, the descendants of Lot, or start a war against them. I have given them the city of Ar, and I am not going to give you any of their land.’ ” 
Then they spat in his face and beat him; and those who slapped him 
Then he lay down on the boy, placing his mouth, eyes, and hands on the boy's mouth, eyes, and hands. As he lay stretched out over the boy, the boy's body started to get warm. 
On his return from Mesopotamia Jacob arrived safely at the city of Shechem in the land of Canaan and set up his camp in a field near the city. 
Then David called one of his men and said, “Kill him!” The man struck the Amalekite and mortally wounded him, 
Then King Jehoshaphat bowed low, with his face touching the ground, and all the people bowed with him and worshipped the LORD. 
He led them by a straight road : to a city where they could live. 
For what our human nature wants is opposed to what the Spirit wants, and what the Spirit wants is opposed to what our human nature wants. These two are enemies, and this means that you cannot do what you want to do. 
As he scattered the seed in the field, some of it fell along the path, and the birds came and ate it up.  
So Peter went down and said to the men, “I am the man you are looking for. Why have you come?” 
give water to the thirsty people who come to you. You people of the land of Tema, give food to the refugees. 
Unless the Most High has sent you the dream, pay no attention to it. 
The sound of a carefree crowd could be heard, a group of men brought in from the desert. They put bracelets on the women's arms and beautiful crowns on their heads. 
but in the heat they disappear, : and the stream beds lie bare and dry. 
I groan aloud; : I am nothing but skin and bones. 
Then Saul asked Jonathan, “What have you done?” : Jonathan answered, “I ate a little honey with the stick I was holding. Here I am — I am ready to die.” 
But when the sore heals and becomes white again, the person shall go to the priest, 
Joshua got up early the next morning, and for the second time the priests and soldiers marched round the city in the same order as the day before: first, the advance guard; next, the seven priests blowing the seven trumpets; then, the priests carrying the LORD's Covenant Box; and finally, the rearguard. All this time the trumpets were sounding. 
Zadok the priest was there, and with him were the Levites, carrying the sacred Covenant Box. They set it down and didn't pick it up again until all the people had left the city. The priest Abiathar was there too.  
And I told them how God had been with me and helped me, and what the emperor had said to me. : They responded, “Let's start rebuilding!” And they got ready to start the work. 
To the people who refuse to listen to what I have said, they keep saying that all will go well with them. And they tell everyone who is stubborn that disaster will never touch him.” 
Then I looked, and there was a white cloud, and sitting on the cloud was what looked like a human being, with a crown of gold on his head and a sharp sickle in his hand. 
Who was it that planned to bring all this on Tyre, that imperial city, whose merchant princes were the most honoured men on earth? 
Three times I prayed to the Lord about this and asked him to take it away. 
Once a message came quietly, : so quietly I could hardly hear it. 
Jacob sent Judah ahead to ask Joseph to meet them in Goshen. When they arrived, 
He told him how Saul had slaughtered the priests of the LORD. 
Hananiah had two sons, Pelatiah and Jeshaiah. Jeshaiah was the father of Rephaiah, who was the father of Arnan, the father of Obadiah, the father of Shecaniah.  
The noise of battle is heard in the land, and there is great destruction. 
I am coming soon. Keep safe what you have, so that no one will rob you of your victory prize.  
The palace court, the inner court of the Temple, and the entrance room of the Temple had walls with one layer of cedar beams for every three layers of cut stones. 
“Now the people of Ammon, Moab, and Edom have attacked us. When our ancestors came out of Egypt, you did not allow them to enter those lands, so our ancestors went round them and did not destroy them. 
and we grope about like blind people. We stumble at noon, as if it were night, as if we were in the dark world of the dead. 
They die because they have no self-control. Their utter stupidity will send them to their graves.
The following year they came to him and said, “We will not hide the fact from you, sir, that our money is all gone and our livestock belongs to you. There is nothing left to give you except our bodies and our lands. 
“Appoint judges and other officials in every town that the LORD your God gives you. These men are to judge the people impartially. 
I have seen people plough fields of evil : and sow wickedness like seed; : now they harvest wickedness and evil. 
Jesus continued, “Now to what can I compare the people of this day? What are they like?  
All the people of Israel, everyone who lives in the city of Samaria, will know that he has done this. Now they are proud and arrogant. They say, 
As the king and all his men were leaving the city, they stopped at the last house. 
Your teeth are as white as sheep : that have just been shorn and washed. : Not one of them is missing; : they are all perfectly matched. 
They finished the Temple on the third day of the month Adar in the sixth year of the reign of Darius the emperor. 
As I write this letter to you, I hope to come and see you soon. 
He also caused the east wind to blow, : and by his power he stirred up the south wind; 
who had three sons: Bethrapha, Paseah, and Tehinnah. Tehinnah was the founder of the city of Nahash. The descendants of these men lived in Recah. 
For while I was with you, I made up my mind to forget everything except Jesus Christ and especially his death on the cross. 
Gluttony has been the death of many people. Avoid it and live longer.
They were to meet a strange death, while your people continued on their miraculous journey. 
Then there arose the fiery prophet Elijah, whose words blazed like a torch. 
Happy are those who trust the LORD, : who do not turn to idols : or join those who worship false gods. 
The time is coming! : I will bring your scattered people home; : I will make you famous throughout the world : and make you prosperous once again.” : The LORD has spoken.
“Listen! I am sending you out just like sheep to a pack of wolves. You must be as cautious as snakes and as gentle as doves.  
For our life is a matter of faith, not of sight. 
One of those who were with Jesus drew his sword and struck at the High Priest's slave, cutting off his ear. 
They threw down their sticks, and the sticks turned into snakes. But Aaron's stick swallowed theirs. 
You are great and powerful, glorious, splendid, and majestic. Everything in heaven and earth is yours, and you are king, supreme ruler over all. 
It included the kingdom of Og, the last of the Rephaim, who had ruled at Ashtaroth and Edrei. Moses had defeated these people and driven them out. 
Jacob said to Joseph, “I never expected to see you again, and now God has even let me see your children.” 
So I thought it was necessary to urge these brothers and sisters to go to you ahead of me and get ready in advance the gift you promised to make. Then it will be ready when I arrive, and it will show that you give because you want to, not because you have to. 
The greatness and the wealth of the nations will be brought into the city. 
I have not come to call respectable people to repent, but outcasts.” 
During the time that Mordecai held office in the palace, Bigthana and Teresh, two of the palace eunuchs who guarded the entrance to the king's rooms, became hostile to King Xerxes and plotted to assassinate him. 
But soon a very strong wind — the one called “North-easter” — blew down from the island. 
It will be as permanent as the moon, : that faithful witness in the sky.” 
The LORD told Moses 
He shall present one part of each kind of bread as a special contribution to the LORD; it belongs to the priest who takes the blood of the animal and throws it against the altar. 
And Isaiah exclaims about Israel: “Even if the people of Israel are as many as the grains of sand by the sea, yet only a few of them will be saved; 
And if you lend only to those from whom you hope to get it back, why should you receive a blessing? Even sinners lend to sinners, to get back the same amount!  
The voice of the LORD is heard : in all its might and majesty. 
A flood in the Kishon swept them away — : the onrushing River Kishon. : I shall march, march on, with strength! 
On the other side of Sarid it went east to the border of Chisloth Tabor, then to Daberath and up to Japhia. 
You know very well that we did not come to you with flattering talk, nor did we use words to cover up greed — God is our witness! 
When Ahithophel saw that his advice had not been followed, he saddled his donkey and went back to his own city. After putting his affairs in order, he hanged himself. He was buried in the family grave. 
O LORD, you are faithful to those who are faithful to you; : completely good to those who are perfect. 
God himself had made the tablets and had engraved the commandments on them. 
The young lions roar while they hunt, : looking for the food that God provides. 
It must be remembered, of course, that laws are made, not for good people, but for lawbreakers and criminals, for the godless and sinful, for those who are not religious or spiritual, for those who kill their fathers or mothers, for murderers, 
They shall be responsible for carrying the following objects
“I suppose,” answered Simon, “that it would be the one who was forgiven more.” :   “You are right,” said Jesus. 
The pasture land is to extend outwards from the city walls 450 metres in each direction, 
But many in the crowd believed in him and said, “When the Messiah comes, will he perform more miracles than this man has?” 
May his children be homeless beggars; : may they be driven from the ruins they live in! 
Seven brothers, who were the sons of a Jewish High Priest named Sceva, were doing this. 
These teachings are not empty words; they are your very life. Obey them and you will live long in that land across the Jordan that you are about to occupy.” 
Remember that the LORD your God is the only God and that he is faithful. He will keep his covenant and show his constant love to a thousand generations of those who love him and obey his commands, 
For Moses commanded, ‘Respect your father and your mother,’ and, ‘Whoever curses his father or his mother is to be put to death.’  
I am always ready to risk my life; : I have not forgotten your law. 
Not even they, however, could make their stories agree. 
Some of them began to spit on Jesus, and they blindfolded him and hit him. “Guess who hit you!” they said. And the guards took him and slapped him. 
I remember your judgements of long ago, : and they bring me comfort, O LORD. 
So hand over seven of his male descendants, and we will hang them before the LORD at Gibeah, the town of Saul, the LORD's chosen king.” : “I will hand them over,” the king answered. 
The Sovereign LORD says, “I will make you so desolate that the whole world will rejoice at your downfall, 
He went away once more and prayed, saying the same words. 
because you have not yet entered the land that the LORD your God is giving you, where you can live in peace. 
Who deserves honour? The human race does, because people fear the Lord. Who does not deserve honour? The human race does not, because people break the Lord's commands. 
They will answer, ‘No, why should we? We will all be just as stubborn and evil as we want to be.’ ” 
I gave you food — the best flour, olive oil, and honey — but you offered it as a sacrifice to win the favour of idols.” This is what the Sovereign LORD says. 
Esau said, “Then let me leave some of my men with you.” : But Jacob answered, “There is no need for that for I only want to gain your favour.”  
You will break them with an iron rod; : you will shatter them in pieces like a clay pot.’ ” 
On another Sabbath Jesus went into a synagogue and taught. A man was there whose right-hand was paralysed. 
Obed Edom's family furnished a total of 62 highly qualified men for this work. 
“Or suppose a woman who has ten silver coins loses one of them — what does she do? She lights a lamp, sweeps her house, and looks carefully everywhere until she finds it.  
They refused to obey his instructions, they did not keep the covenant he had made with their ancestors, and they disregarded his warnings. They worshipped worthless idols and became worthless themselves, and they followed the customs of the surrounding nations, disobeying the LORD's command not to imitate them. 
and when Jezebel was killing the LORD's prophets, Obadiah took a hundred of them, hid them in caves in two groups of fifty, and provided them with food and water.) 
Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joseph were watching and saw where the body of Jesus was placed.
May God use their own evil to punish my enemies. : He will destroy them because he is faithful. 
Remember, O God, my life is only a breath; : my happiness has already ended. 
Do not have intercourse with a woman during her monthly period, because she is ritually unclean. 
Judah's people are helpless slaves, forced away from home. : They live in other lands, with no place to call their own — : Surrounded by enemies, with no way to escape. 
“In the town of Bethlehem in Judea,” they answered. “For this is what the prophet wrote
A fine wife is a joy to her husband, and he can live out his years in peace. 
The enemy will surround the city and try to kill its people. The siege will be so terrible that the people inside the city will eat one another and even their own children.” 
“Suppose there is a truly good man, righteous and honest. 
So they said, “This man is Jesus son of Joseph, isn't he? We know his father and mother. How, then, does he now say he came down from heaven?” 
The tribe of Gad: the clans of Zephon, Haggi, Shuni, 
But the gate to life is narrow and the way that leads to it is hard, and there are few people who find it. 
Following the rules laid down by his father David, he organized the daily work of the priests and of the Levites who assisted the priests in singing hymns and in doing their work. He also organized the temple guards in sections for performing their daily duties at each gate, in accordance with the commands of David, the man of God. 
The people of Sheba and Dedan and the merchants from the towns of Spain will ask you, ‘Have you assembled your army and attacked in order to loot and plunder? Do you intend to get silver and gold, livestock and property, and to march off with all those spoils?’ ” 
Eli called him, “Samuel, my boy!” : “Yes, sir,” answered Samuel. 
The places where Isaac's descendants worship will be destroyed. The holy places of Israel will be left in ruins. I will bring the dynasty of King Jeroboam to an end.” 
“So then, obey the commands that I have given you today; love the LORD your God and serve him with all your heart. 
He protects those who treat others fairly, and guards those who are devoted to him. 
He set up military camps throughout Edom, and the people there became his subjects. The LORD made David victorious everywhere. 
and that there will always be priests from the tribe of Levi to serve me and to offer burnt offerings, grain offerings, and sacrifices.” 
Then he shall skin the animal and cut it up, 
Or think of a ship: big as it is and driven by such strong winds, it can be steered by a very small rudder, and it goes wherever the pilot wants it to go. 
Like his father before him, he sinned against the LORD and led Israel into sin. 
Then Raguel ordered his servants to fill in the grave before dawn. 
Of course some of them preach Christ because they are jealous and quarrelsome, but others from genuine goodwill. 
A gossip ruins his own character, and everyone in the neighbourhood hates him.
If he sees men coming on horseback, two by two, and men riding on donkeys and camels, he is to observe them carefully.” 
“Remember how the LORD your God has blessed you in everything that you have done. He has taken care of you as you wandered through this vast desert. He has been with you these forty years, and you have had everything you needed. 
And when they asked for a king, God gave them Saul son of Kish from the tribe of Benjamin, to be their king for forty years. 
Even if we sin, we know your power and are still yours. But because we know that we belong to you, we will not sin. 
Some people brought children to Jesus for him to place his hands on them, but the disciples scolded the people. 
They all are fastened so firmly together : that nothing can ever pull them apart. 
“Sir, my servant is sick in bed at home, unable to move and suffering terribly.” 
From Paul, Silas, and Timothy — : To the people of the church in Thessalonica, who belong to God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ: : May grace and peace be yours. 
All those from the nations around you who pass by will sneer at you and keep their distance. 
But there was a man named Ananias, who with his wife Sapphira sold some property that belonged to them. 
In the territory of Issachar: Kedesh, Daberath, 
For rulers are not to be feared by those who do good, but by those who do evil. Would you like to be unafraid of those in authority? Then do what is good, and they will praise you, 
A bird flies through the air, but leaves no sign that it has been there. It speeds along, riding through the thin air by the force of its wings, leaving behind no trace of its passing. 
Conceited people can never become wise, but intelligent people learn easily. 
If you refuse to listen to the cry of the poor, your own cry for help will not be heard. 
When the man decides how he is going to divide his property among his children, he is not to show partiality to the son of his favourite wife by giving him the share that belongs to the firstborn son. 
So then, my brothers and sisters, we have an obligation, but it is not to live as our human nature wants us to. 
Huram also made pots, shovels, and bowls. He completed all his work for King Solomon for the LORD's Temple. This is what he made: : The two columns : The two bowl-shaped capitals on top of the columns : The design of interwoven chains on each capital : The 400 bronze pomegranates, in two rows of a hundred each round the design on each capital : The ten carts : The ten basins : The tank : The twelve bulls supporting the tank : The pots, shovels, and bowls : All this equipment for the Temple, which Huram made for King Solomon, was of polished bronze. 
“I alone am the LORD your God. : No other god may share my glory; : I will not let idols share my praise. 
“I am the real vine, and my Father is the gardener.  
Look at the birds: they do not sow seeds, gather a harvest and put it in barns; yet your Father in heaven takes care of them! Aren't you worth much more than birds?  
Hashum — 223 
If the owner of a house knew the time when the thief would come, you can be sure that he would stay awake and not let the thief break into his house.  
Then the people again picked up stones to throw at him. 
If anyone sins against someone else, God can defend him; but who can defend someone who sins against the LORD?” : But they would not listen to their father, for the LORD had decided to kill them. 
Jesus said to him, “Foxes have holes, and birds have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lie down and rest.” 
and in his 23rd year, 745 — taken away by Nebuzaradan. In all, 4,600 people were taken away. 
Tobit got up and stumbled out through the entrance of the courtyard. 
How much longer must I wait? : When will you punish those who persecute me? 
Take some of the blood that is on the altar and some of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it on Aaron and his clothes and on his sons and their clothes. He, his sons, and their clothes will then be dedicated to me. 
But when she begins to run, : she can laugh at any horse and rider. 
Like everyone else in this tribe, my own family used to go to the city of Dan in the mountains of northern Galilee to offer sacrifices to the gold bull-calf which King Jeroboam of Israel had set up there. 
King Joash of Judah took all the offerings that his predecessors Jehoshaphat, Jehoram, and Ahaziah had dedicated to the LORD, added to them his own offerings and all the gold in the treasuries of the Temple and the palace, and sent them all as a gift to King Hazael, who then led his army away from Jerusalem. 
How great are your actions, LORD! : How deep are your thoughts! 
He sent the gifts on ahead of him and spent that night in camp. 
Instead, by speaking the truth in a spirit of love, we must grow up in every way to Christ, who is the head. 
You welcome those who find joy in doing what is right, those who remember how you want them to live. You were angry with us, but we went on sinning; in spite of your great anger we have continued to do wrong since ancient times.  
For her sins are piled up as high as heaven, : and God remembers her wicked ways. 
Since the days of the prophet Samuel, the Passover had never been celebrated like this. None of the former kings had ever celebrated a Passover like this one celebrated by King Josiah, the priests, the Levites, and the people of Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem 
I face your holy Temple, : bow down, and praise your name : because of your constant love and faithfulness, : because you have shown that your name and your commands are supreme. 
“Show me a silver coin. Whose face and name are these on it?” : “The Emperor's,” they answered. 
But the most miserable people of all are those who rest their hopes on lifeless things, who worship things that have been made by human hands — images of animals artistically made from gold and silver, or some useless stone carved by someone long ago. 
You will show me the path that leads to life; : your presence fills me with joy : and brings me pleasure for ever.
On the third day they found him in the Temple, sitting with the Jewish teachers, listening to them and asking questions. 
Hezron, and Carmi. 
On that day Isaac's servants came and told him about the well which they had dug. They said, “We have found water.” 
Then they went and did what the LORD had commanded Moses and Aaron. 
Then they made a crown out of thorny branches and placed it on his head, and put a stick in his right-hand; then they knelt before him and mocked him. “Long live the King of the Jews!” they said. 
Although she asked Joseph day after day, he would not go to bed with her. 
I am going to force you and your mother into exile. You will go to a country where neither of you was born, and both of you will die there. 
But the evil spirit said to them, “I know Jesus, and I know about Paul; but you — who are you?” 
They must turn away from evil and do good; : they must strive for peace with all their heart. 
How magnificent it was when he raised his arm and then led the attack on the cities! 
He went out in the early evening to take a walk in the fields and saw camels coming. 
“How terrible for you, teachers of the Law and Pharisees! You hypocrites! You are like whitewashed tombs, which look fine on the outside but are full of bones and decaying corpses on the inside.  
What will you say when people you thought were your friends conquer you and rule over you? You will be in pain like a woman giving birth. 
Give thanks to the LORD, proclaim his greatness; : tell the nations what he has done. 
Yet I do proclaim a message of wisdom to those who are spiritually mature. But it is not the wisdom that belongs to this world or to the powers that rule this world — powers that are losing their power. 
Yet all the while a brilliant light was shining for your holy people. Their enemies heard their voices, but couldn't see them. They envied the good fortune of your people, who were not suffering. 
Keep control over all that you do; don't let anyone stain your reputation. 
All the reservoirs and cisterns went dry, so that the drinking water had to be rationed, and not a day passed when there was enough water to go round. 
I will not take sides in this debate; : I am not going to flatter anyone. 
Put into practice what you learnt and received from me, both from my words and from my actions. And the God who gives us peace will be with you. 
Terah took his son Abram, his grandson Lot, who was the son of Haran, and his daughter-in-law Sarai, Abram's wife, and with them he left the city of Ur in Babylonia to go to the land of Canaan. They went as far as Haran and settled there. 
The Ammonites paid tribute to Uzziah, and he became so powerful that his fame spread even to Egypt. 
If I must boast, I will boast about things that show how weak I am. 
I know that after I leave, fierce wolves will come among you, and they will not spare the flock. 
For the love of money is a source of all kinds of evil. Some have been so eager to have it that they have wandered away from the faith and have broken their hearts with many sorrows. 
with their pasture land, making a total of 48. 
None of the others at the table understood why Jesus said this to him. 
When you tell the truth, justice is done, but lies lead to injustice. 
Kiriathaim, Sibmah, Zerethshahar on the hill in the valley, 
They blindfolded him and asked him, “Who hit you? Guess!” 
Suppose a foreigner living with you becomes rich, while a fellow-Israelite becomes poor and sells himself as a slave to that foreigner or to a member of his family. 
and 300 smaller shields, each covered with about three kilogrammes of beaten gold. He had them all placed in the Hall of the Forest of Lebanon. 
Look down from your holy place in heaven and bless your people Israel; bless also the rich and fertile land that you have given us, as you promised our ancestors.’ 
But if we say, ‘From human beings,’ we are afraid of what the people might do, because they are all convinced that John was a prophet.” 
But you laugh at them, LORD; : you mock all the heathen. 
Moses then said to the king, “The LORD says, ‘At about midnight I will go through Egypt, 
Order them to collect all the food during the good years that are coming, and give them authority to store up corn in the cities and guard it. 
When the king of Israel saw the Syrians, he asked Elisha, “Shall I kill them, sir? Shall I kill them?” 
Those who are left among the nations will be like a lion hunting for food in a forest or a pasture: it gets in among the sheep, pounces on them, and tears them to pieces — and there is no hope of rescue. 
If I did my work as a matter of free choice, then I could expect to be paid; but I do it as a matter of duty, because God has entrusted me with this task. 
To him who is able to keep you from falling, and to bring you faultless and joyful before his glorious presence — 
Their steps were firm, but now they stumble; : they fall — victims of their own advice. 
Make good use of every opportunity you have, because these are evil days. 
and ordered them, “Don't take anything with you on your journey except a stick — no bread, no beggar's bag, no money in your pockets.  
Or with a chisel carve my words in stone : and write them so that they would last for ever. 
“Never!” Joab answered. “I will never ruin or destroy your city! 
Guard them carefully until you reach the Temple. There in the priests' room weigh them and hand them over to the leaders of the priests and of the Levites, and to the leaders of the people of Israel in Jerusalem.” 
LORD, you are a God who punishes; : reveal your anger! 
Come with me from the Lebanon Mountains, my bride; : come with me from Lebanon. : Come down from the top of Mount Amana, : from Mount Senir and Mount Hermon, : where the lions and leopards live. 
and even if those three men lived there — as surely as I, the Sovereign LORD, am the living God — they would not be able to save even their children, but only their own lives. 
The LORD said to Isaiah, “Take your son Shear Jashub, and go to meet King Ahaz. You will find him on the road where the cloth makers work, at the end of the ditch that brings water from the upper pool. 
Bilhah became pregnant again and bore Jacob a second son. 
They will feel all the force of my anger. I will not spare them or show them any mercy. They will shout prayers to me as loud as they can, but I will not listen to them.”
When wise people speak, they make knowledge attractive, but stupid people spout nonsense. 
The LORD watches over the righteous : and listens to their cries; 
The oxen and donkeys that plough your fields will eat the finest and best fodder. 
After Hezron died, his son Caleb married Ephrath, his father's widow. They had a son named Ashhur, who founded the town of Tekoa. 
So we are even more confident of the message proclaimed by the prophets. You will do well to pay attention to it, because it is like a lamp shining in a dark place until the Day dawns and the light of the morning star shines in your hearts. 
Then some teachers of the Law and some Pharisees spoke up. “Teacher,” they said, “we want to see you perform a miracle.” 
The LORD says, “I am angry because the leaders of Judah have invaded Israel and stolen land from her. So I will pour out punishment on them like a flood. 
The fields will be a barren waste, covered with sulphur and salt; nothing will be planted, and not even weeds will grow there. Your land will be like the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, of Admah and Zeboiim, which the LORD destroyed when he was furiously angry. 
She had heard about Jesus, so she came in the crowd behind him, 
They got their gifts ready to present to Joseph when he arrived at noon, because they had been told that they were to eat with him. 
I will tell you what is going to happen to the children who are born here and to their parents. 
But time after time Jews who were living among our enemies came to warn us of the plans our enemies were making against us.  
The LORD appeared to Abram and said to him, “This is the country that I am going to give to your descendants.” Then Abram built an altar there to the LORD, who had appeared to him. 
A farmer who is too lazy to plough his fields at the right time will have nothing to harvest. 
“And what is truth?” Pilate asked. : Then Pilate went back outside to the people and said to them, “I cannot find any reason to condemn him. 
Such generosity will save you from death and will wash away all your sins. Those who give to the poor will live full lives, 
Jacob answered, “I was afraid, because I thought that you might take your daughters away from me. 
A time will come when the members of a clan will choose one of their number and say to him, “You at least have something to wear, so be our leader in this time of trouble.” 
Be careful about what you say, and don't be a hypocrite. 
The LORD Almighty will protect his people, : and they will destroy their enemies. : They will shout in battle like drunken men : and will shed the blood of their enemies; : it will flow like the blood of a sacrifice : poured on the altar from a bowl. 
Serve the Lord willingly, and the Lord will accept you; your prayers will reach the skies. 
He lived to be 365 years old. 
All this will be yours, then, if you worship me.” 
My life was cut off and ended, : Like a tent that is taken down, : Like cloth that is cut from a loom. : I thought that God was ending my life. 
Jesus was still speaking when Judas, one of the twelve disciples, arrived. With him was a crowd armed with swords and clubs, and sent by the chief priests, the teachers of the Law, and the elders. 
Trust in God at all times, my people. : Tell him all your troubles, : for he is our refuge. 
The rims of the wheels were covered with eyes.  
Heaven belongs to the LORD alone, : but he gave the earth to the human race. 
May his towns be protected with iron gates, : And may he always live secure.” 
Across all the desert highlands : people have come to plunder. : I have sent war to destroy the entire land; : no one can live in peace. 
You thought you would always be a queen, : and did not take these things to heart : or think how it all would end. 
Then he took me into the entrance room of the Temple. He measured the entrance: it was 2.5 metres deep and seven metres wide, with walls 1.5 metres thick on either side. 
But before the time for faith came, the Law kept us all locked up as prisoners until this coming faith should be revealed. 
Don't be afraid of your enemies; always be courageous, and this will prove to them that they will lose and that you will win, because it is God who gives you the victory. 
Bring in your relatives, the tribe of Levi, to work with you and help you while you and your sons are serving at the Tent. 
He was then almost 100 years old; but his faith did not weaken when he thought of his body, which was already practically dead, or of the fact that Sarah could not have children. 
I will climb the palm tree : and pick its fruit. : To me your breasts are like bunches of grapes, : your breath like the fragrance of apples, 
Then the priest shall make the woman agree to this oath spoken by the priest: “If you have not committed adultery, you will not be harmed by the curse that this water brings. 
“My people, do not be afraid; : people of Israel, do not be terrified. : I will rescue you from that distant land, : from the land where you are prisoners. : You will come back home and live in peace; : you will be secure, and no one will make you afraid. 
You can't go wrong with a good friend or neighbour, but an intelligent wife is better than either. 
Are they greedy? I will prepare them a feast and make them drunk and happy. They will go to sleep and never wake up. 
Others have no happiness at all; : they live and die with bitter hearts. 
One of Joab's men stood by Amasa's body and called out, “Everyone who is for Joab and David follow Joab!” 
instead of consulting the LORD. So the LORD killed him and gave control of the kingdom to David son of Jesse.
Amam, Shema, Moladah, 
To our God and Father be the glory for ever and ever! Amen. 
Be sincere and determined. Keep calm when trouble comes. 
Then the priest shall write this curse down and wash the writing off into the bowl of bitter water. 
And so the word of God continued to spread. The number of disciples in Jerusalem grew larger and larger, and a great number of priests accepted the faith. 
Let the wheat and the weeds both grow together until harvest. Then I will tell the harvest workers to pull up the weeds first, tie them in bundles and burn them, and then to gather in the wheat and put it in my barn.’ ” 
His kingdom will reach from sea to sea, : from the Euphrates to the ends of the earth. 
You created the day and the night; : you set the sun and the moon in their places; 
Listen when I reprimand you; I will give you good advice and share my knowledge with you. 
He and Aaron assembled the whole community in front of the rock, and Moses said, “Listen, you rebels! Do we have to get water out of this rock for you?” 
Then Samuel made the families of the tribe of Benjamin come forward, and the family of Matri was picked out. Then the men of the family of Matri came forward, and Saul son of Kish was picked out. They looked for him, but when they could not find him, 
May those who try to kill me : be completely defeated and confused. : May those who are happy because of my troubles : be turned back and disgraced. 
My greetings to Ampliatus, my dear friend in the fellowship of the Lord. 
One of them, called Caleb, said, “I will give my daughter Achsah in marriage to the man who succeeds in capturing Kiriath Sepher.” 
The furnace burns fiercely, but the waste metals do not melt and run off. It is useless to go on refining my people, because those who are evil are not taken away. 
They swarmed round me like bees, : but they burnt out as quickly as a fire among thorns; : by the power of the LORD I destroyed them. 
He straightened himself up and said to her, “Where are they? Is there no one left to condemn you?” 
But they ridiculed God's messengers, ignoring his words and laughing at his prophets, until at last the LORD's anger against his people was so great that there was no escape. 
He said to the young man carrying his weapons, “Draw your sword and kill me, so that these godless Philistines won't gloat over me and kill me.” But the young man was too terrified to do it. So Saul took his own sword and threw himself on it. 
chase them away with your storm : and terrify them with your fierce winds. 
As it was in the time of Noah so shall it be in the days of the Son of Man.  
From the third generation onward their descendants may be included among the LORD's people. 
Meanwhile Peter kept on knocking. At last they opened the door, and when they saw him, they were amazed. 
Your leaders are rebels and friends of thieves; they are always accepting gifts and bribes. They never defend orphans in court or listen when widows present their case. 
When it was decided that we should sail to Italy, they handed Paul and some other prisoners over to Julius, an officer in the Roman regiment called “The Emperor's Regiment”. 
but no one would have known it, because they looked just as bad as before. Then I woke up. 
and their bodies will lie in the street of the great city, where their Lord was crucified. The symbolic name of that city is Sodom, or Egypt. 
My union with the Lord Jesus makes me certain that no food is of itself ritually unclean; but if a person believes that some food is unclean, then it becomes unclean for that person. 
They also made ten basins, five to be placed on the south side of the Temple and five on the north side. They were to be used to rinse the parts of the animals that were burnt as sacrifices. The water in the large tank was for the priests to use for washing. 
After sunset all who had friends who were sick with various diseases brought them to Jesus; he placed his hands on every one of them and healed them all. 
I am no longer fit to be called your son; treat me as one of your hired workers.’  
Jesus answered, “I have already told you, but you would not believe me. The things I do by my Father's authority speak on my behalf;  
Some of the provincial authorities, who were his friends, also sent him a message begging him not to show himself in the theatre. 
King Jehoshaphat of Judah returned safely to his palace in Jerusalem. 
Then I saw another mighty angel coming down out of heaven. He was wrapped in a cloud and had a rainbow round his head; his face was like the sun, and his legs were like pillars of fire. 
Everyone who had fine linen; blue, purple, or red wool; cloth of goats' hair; rams' skin dyed red; or fine leather, brought it. 
he asked Arioch why the king had issued such a harsh order. So Arioch told Daniel what had happened. 
then kill all the people in that town and all their livestock too. Destroy that town completely. 
But if they resist, do not spare them. Kill them and loot the entire region under your control. 
The priests stood in the places that were assigned to them, and facing them stood the Levites, praising the LORD with the musical instruments that King David had provided and singing the hymn, “His Love is Eternal!” as they had been commissioned by David. The priests blew trumpets while all the people stood. 
“Jerusalem, Jerusalem! You kill the prophets and stone the messengers God has sent you! How many times have I wanted to put my arms round all your people, just as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, but you would not let me!  
Now, God has offered us the promise that we may receive that rest he spoke about. Let us take care, then, that none of you will be found to have failed to receive that promised rest. 
He used the gold to overlay the temple walls, the rafters, the thresholds, and the doors. On the walls the workers carved designs of winged creatures.  
“Tell us,” they said, “are you the Messiah?” : He answered, “If I tell you, you will not believe me;  
But now your rule will not continue. Because you have disobeyed him, the LORD will find the kind of man he wants and make him ruler of his people.” 
He cursed as naturally as he dressed himself; : may his own curses soak into his body like water : and into his bones like oil! 
before they go into the Tent or approach the altar to offer the food offering. Then they will not be killed. 
He had them strongly fortified and appointed a commander for each of them, and in each one he placed supplies of food, olive oil, and wine, 
And if the Governor should hear of this, we will convince him that you are innocent, and you will have nothing to worry about.” 
Didn't he really mean us when he said that? Of course that was written for us. The one who ploughs and the one who reaps should do their work in the hope of getting a share of the crop. 
I have never been glad when my enemies suffered, : or pleased when they met with disaster; 
Wealth protects the rich; poverty destroys the poor. 
You grumbled to one another: ‘The LORD hates us. He brought us out of Egypt just to hand us over to these Amorites, so that they could kill us. 
Five times I was given the 39 lashes by the Jews; 
They eagerly paw the ground in the valley; : they rush into battle with all their strength. 
Be wise, my child, and I will be happy; I will have an answer for anyone who criticizes me. 
Those who captured us told us to sing; : they told us to entertain them: : “Sing us a song about Zion.” 
The men stared at her because she was so beautiful. They listened to her story and said, 
While it is still daylight, pack your bundle for exile, so that they can see you, and then let them watch you leave in the evening as if you were going into exile. 
Sin began with a woman, and we must all die because of her. 
A day is coming when people will sing, : “I praise you, LORD! You were angry with me, : but now you comfort me and are angry no longer. 
Solomon made an alliance with the king of Egypt by marrying his daughter. He brought her to live in David's City until he had finished building his palace, the Temple, and the wall round Jerusalem. 
But he said nothing in response to the accusations of the chief priests and elders. 
All the equipment that is used in the Tent and all the pegs for the Tent and for the enclosure are to be made of bronze. 
Then the second one married the woman, 
The leaders replied, “We'll do as you say. We'll give the property back and not try to collect the debts.” : I called in the priests and made the leaders swear in front of them to keep the promise they had just made. 
We are better off as prisoners of war. They will make us slaves, but at least we will be alive, and we won't have to watch our wives and children dying before our eyes. 
Offer your food offerings to the LORD for seven days. On the seventh day you shall again gather for worship, but you shall do none of your daily work. 
But if by continuing to live I can do more worthwhile work, then I am not sure which I should choose. 
Zadok took the container of olive oil which he had brought from the Tent of the LORD's presence, and anointed Solomon. They blew the trumpet, and all the people shouted, “Long live King Solomon!” 
and hand them over to those who want to kill them, to King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia and his army. But later on, people will live in Egypt again, as they did in times past. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
And I will refuse to help them then, because they have done evil and worshipped other gods. 
I will also bring a bit of food; it will give you strength to continue your journey. You have honoured me by coming to my home, so let me serve you.” : They replied, “Thank you; we accept.” 
So she gave Hagar to him to be his concubine. (This happened after Abram had lived in Canaan for ten years.) 
That evening his disciples came to him and said, “It is already very late, and this is a lonely place. Send the people away and let them go to the villages to buy food for themselves.” 
I swear to you that I will cause someone from your own family to bring trouble on you. You will see it when I take your wives from you and give them to another man; and he will have intercourse with them in broad daylight. 
Zorah, Aijalon, and Hebron. 
The people of Reuben and Gad said, “This altar is a witness to all of us that the LORD is God.” And so they named it “Witness”.
Everything written in the Scriptures was written to teach us, in order that we might have hope through the patience and encouragement which the Scriptures give us. 
On this second day they again marched round the city once and then returned to camp. They did this for six days. 
He will have knowledge to share and good advice to give, as well as insight into the Lord's secrets. 
The man measured the inner courtyard, and it was fifty metres square. The Temple was on the west side, and in front of it was an altar. 
If we live, it is for the Lord that we live, and if we die, it is for the Lord that we die. So whether we live or die, we belong to the Lord. 
This is what happened: when the Israelites left Egypt, they went through the desert to the Gulf of Aqaba and came to Kadesh. 
As for us, however, our boasting will not go beyond certain limits; it will stay within the limits of the work which God has set for us, and this includes our work among you. 
“The Levites are now to be mine. When I killed all the firstborn of the Egyptians, I consecrated as my own the eldest son of each Israelite family and the firstborn of every animal. Now, instead of having the firstborn sons of Israel as my own, I have the Levites; they will belong to me. I am the LORD.” 
Then the LORD will go out and fight against those nations, as he has fought in times past. 
If the skin disease spreads and covers the person from head to foot, 
How can anyone be sure that the human spirit goes upwards while an animal's spirit goes down into the ground? 
“Put your sword back in its place,” Jesus said to him. “All who take the sword will die by the sword.  
So a pupil should be satisfied to become like his teacher, and a slave like his master. If the head of the family is called Beelzebul, the members of the family will be called even worse names! 
Later I sent Moses and Aaron, and I brought great trouble on Egypt. But I led you out; 
A man named Oded, a prophet of the LORD, lived in the city of Samaria. He met the returning Israelite army with its Judean prisoners as it was about to enter the city, and he said, “The LORD God of your ancestors was angry with Judah and let you defeat them, but now he has heard of the vicious way you slaughtered them. 
He also defeated the Moabites, who became his subjects and paid taxes to him. 
And he drove them out of the court. 
Think about it: the Most High has made everything in pairs, each thing the opposite of something else. 
People whose ancestors had lived in the following towns also returned: : Bethlehem and Netophah — 188 : Anathoth — 128 : Beth Azmaveth — 42 : Kiriath Jearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth — 743 : Ramah and Geba — 621 : Michmash — 122 : Bethel and Ai — 123 : The other Nebo — 52 : The other Elam — 1,254 : Harim — 320 : Jericho — 345 : Lod, Hadid, and Ono — 721 : Senaah — 3,930 
There are four things that are too mysterious for me to understand
You will be like the person in the proverb, who tries to sleep in a bed too short to stretch out on, with a blanket too narrow to wrap himself in. 
The grapevines growing on ten hectares of land will yield only eight litres of wine. 180 litres of seed will produce only eighteen litres of corn.” 
You provided no olive oil for my head, but she has covered my feet with perfume.  
From the territory of Benjamin they were given four cities: Gibeon, Geba, 
Everything you do or say, then, should be done in the name of the Lord Jesus, as you give thanks through him to God the Father. 
Bilhah became pregnant and bore Jacob a son. 
by the side of every road you built places to worship idols and practise prostitution. 
Make your whole nation and every tribe recognize that you are God, almighty and all-powerful, and that you alone protect the people of Israel!”
You should not ask a stupid person for advice. He will not be able to keep secret what you tell him. 
They want to look at nothing but immoral women; their appetite for sin is never satisfied. They lead weak people into a trap. Their hearts are trained to be greedy. They are under God's curse! 
What right have you to put God to the test as you have done today? Who are you to put yourselves in God's place in dealing with human affairs? 
For there are different reasons why men cannot marry: some, because they were born that way; others, because men made them that way; and others do not marry for the sake of the Kingdom of heaven. Let him who can accept this teaching do so.” 
I call heaven and earth as witnesses against you today that, if you disobey me, you will soon disappear from the land. You will not live very long in the land across the Jordan that you are about to occupy. You will be completely destroyed. 
I have also selected Oholiab son of Ahisamach, from the tribe of Dan, to work with him. I have also given great ability to all the other skilled workers, so that they can make everything I have commanded to be made
But they did not obey or pay any attention. Instead, they did whatever their stubborn and evil hearts told them to do, and they became worse instead of better. 
But if the seed is soaking in water and one of them falls on it, the seed is unclean. 
The LORD Almighty will bless them and say, “I will bless you, Egypt, my people; you, Assyria, whom I created; and you, Israel, my chosen people.”
King Ahab called in all the leaders of the country and said, “You see that this man wants to ruin us. He sent me a message demanding my wives and children, my silver and gold, and I agreed.” 
They spent three days there with David, feasting on the food and drink which other Israelites had prepared for them. 
All those who do evil things hate the light and will not come to the light, because they do not want their evil deeds to be shown up.  
Gossip is so tasty! How we love to swallow it! 
(Shemida had four sons: Ahian, Shechem, Likhi, and Aniam.) 
I will indeed praise you with the harp; : I will praise your faithfulness, my God. : On my harp I will play hymns to you, : the Holy One of Israel. 
David commanded all the leaders of Israel to help Solomon. 
Because of you the LORD also became angry with me and said, ‘Not even you, Moses, will enter the land. 
“I do not know if he is a sinner or not,” the man replied. “One thing I do know: I was blind, and now I see.” 
The LORD says, “People deceive the king and his officers by their evil plots. 
The five Philistine kings marched out with their units of a hundred and of a thousand men; David and his men marched in the rear with King Achish. 
He named the place Bethel. (The town there was once known as Luz.) 
But people are tempted when they are drawn away and trapped by their own evil desires. 
“Then he will say to those on his left, ‘Away from me, you that are under God's curse! Away to the eternal fire which has been prepared for the Devil and his angels!  
The old and honourable men are the head — and the tail is the prophets whose teachings are lies! 
I will kill everyone living in this city; people and animals alike will die of a terrible disease. 
In the same way, how will anyone understand what you are talking about if your message given in strange tongues is not clear? Your words will vanish in the air! 
Slaves belonging to Christian masters must not despise them, for they are their brothers and sisters. Instead, they are to serve them even better, because those who benefit from their work are believers whom they love. : You must teach and preach these things. 
He brought me to his banqueting hall : and raised the banner of love over me. 
The king then ordered Haman to come quickly, so that they could be Esther's guests. So the king and Haman went to Esther's banquet. 
and said to Nahash, “Tomorrow we will surrender to you, and you can do with us whatever you wish.” 
Then Judah said to Er's brother Onan, “Go and sleep with your brother's widow. Fulfil your obligation to her as her husband's brother, so that your brother may have descendants.” 
I am building a temple to honour the LORD my God. It will be a holy place where my people and I will worship him by burning incense of fragrant spices, where we will present offerings of sacred bread to him continuously, and where we will offer burnt offerings every morning and evening, as well as on Sabbaths, New Moon Festivals, and other holy days honouring the LORD our God. He has commanded Israel to do this for ever. 
This was on the thirteenth day of Adar. On the next day, the fourteenth, there was no more killing, and they made it a joyful day of feasting. 
(With the money that Judas got for his evil act he bought a field, where he fell to his death; he burst open and all his bowels spilt out. 
Can any human being be really pure? : Can anyone be right with God? 
A fool does not care whether he understands a thing or not; all he wants to do is to show how clever he is. 
Following the example of his ancestors, Jehoiakim sinned against the LORD.
Then Moses took the anointing oil and put it on the Tent of the LORD's presence and everything that was in it, and in this way he dedicated it all to the LORD. 
I purified the people from everything foreign; I prepared regulations for the priests and the Levites so that each one would know his duty; 
That is what I did in Jerusalem. I received authority from the chief priests and put many of God's people in prison; and when they were sentenced to death, I also voted against them. 
Then they reassured Achior and praised him for what he had done. 
A widow or a divorced woman must keep every vow she makes and every promise to abstain from something. 
Elisha answered, “By the living LORD, whom I serve, I swear that I would have nothing to do with you if I didn't respect your ally King Jehoshaphat of Judah. 
For while we were still with you, we told you beforehand that we were going to be persecuted; and as you well know, that is exactly what happened. 
and so I will do away with you and your family, just as I did with Jeroboam. 
At King Solomon's command they quarried fine large stones for the foundation of the Temple. 
Then I saw another angel flying high in the air, with an eternal message of Good News to announce to the peoples of the earth, to every race, tribe, language, and nation. 
I will forgive their sins : and will no longer remember their wrongs.” 
The next section of the land is to be set apart for special use. It is to be 12.5 kilometres wide from north to south, and the same length from east to west as the sections given to the tribes. The Temple will be in this section. 
From Zion the LORD will extend your royal power. : “Rule over your enemies,” he says. 
The apostles came back and told Jesus everything they had done. He took them with him, and they went off by themselves to a town called Bethsaida. 
by letting any unauthorized person eat them; this would bring guilt and punishment on such a person. I am the LORD and I make the offerings holy.” 
It makes its home on the highest rocks : and makes the sharp peaks its fortress. 
Wise sayings are too deep for stupid people to understand. They have nothing to say when important matters are being discussed. 
They all laughed at him, because they knew that she was dead. 
Let us open our hearts to God in heaven and pray, 
For all those who ask will receive, and those who seek will find, and the door will be opened to anyone who knocks.  
Blow the trumpet for the festival, : when the moon is new and when the moon is full. 
Her remains will be scattered there like dung, so that no one will be able to identify them.’ ”
I beg you, then, to follow my example. 
But their insults cannot hurt me : because the Sovereign LORD gives me help. : I brace myself to endure them. : I know that I will not be disgraced, 
When this happened, the leaders of Gilead went to bring Jephthah back from the land of Tob. 
and the LORD said to him, 
and will ask, “He promised to come, didn't he? Where is he? Our ancestors have already died, but everything is still the same as it was since the creation of the world!” 
Why do you accuse God : of never answering our complaints? 
The entrance room faced the outer courtyard. Palm trees were carved on the walls along the passage. Eight steps led up to this gate. 
The beast forced all the people, small and great, rich and poor, slave and free, to have a mark placed on their right-hands or on their foreheads. 
So they returned to Balak and told him that Balaam had refused to come with them. 
The LORD said to Solomon, 
He assembled a group of priests and Levites in the east courtyard of the Temple 
When you were in trouble, you called to me, and I saved you. : From my hiding place in the storm, I answered you. : I put you to the test at the springs of Meribah. 
Jesus gave a command to the demon, and it went out of the boy, and at that very moment he was healed. 
Like a nightmare it disturbed my sleep. 
And Solomon continued, “My father David planned to build a temple for the worship of the LORD God of Israel, 
“Now then, this is what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying: because you think you are as wise as a god, 
that you order a search to be made in the records your ancestors kept. If you do, you will discover that this city has always been rebellious and that from ancient times it has given trouble to kings and to rulers of provinces. Its people have always been hard to govern. This is why the city was destroyed. 
After the man is cured of his discharge, he must wait seven days and then wash his clothes and bathe in fresh spring water, and he will be ritually clean. 
So give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. : Praise the eternal King. : Your Temple will be rebuilt, : and your people will be happy again. : “May the Lord make all your exiles glad, : may he take care of your suffering people : for as long as time shall last. 
Some time later Boaz himself arrived from Bethlehem and greeted the workers. “The LORD be with you!” he said. : “The LORD bless you!” they answered. 
My brothers and sisters, if someone is caught in any kind of wrongdoing, those of you who are spiritual should set him right; but you must do it in a gentle way. And keep an eye on yourselves, so that you will not be tempted, too. 
I had another vision. This time I saw four chariots coming out from between two bronze mountains. 
They think there is no need to serve God : nor any advantage in praying to him. 
All these things were created because of the wicked; they are the ones who have caused destruction.  
All your trees and crops will be devoured by insects. 
Jesus went to the territory near the town of Caesarea Philippi, where he asked his disciples, “Who do people say the Son of Man is?” 
But the Philistines caught up with them and killed three of Saul's sons, Jonathan, Abinadab, and Malchishua. 
Who is wise enough to count the clouds : and tilt them over to pour out the rain, 
God said, “Do not come any closer. Take off your sandals, because you are standing on holy ground. 
The God who said, “Out of darkness the light shall shine!” is the same God who made his light shine in our hearts, to bring us the knowledge of God's glory shining in the face of Christ. 
Michal, Saul's daughter, never had any children.
so Jehoshaphat ruled in peace, and God gave him security on every side. 
Then Saul sent a message to Jesse: “I like David. Let him stay here in my service.” 
There on Mount Sinai in the desert, the LORD gave these commands to Moses on the day he told the people of Israel to make their offerings.
My enemies have spread a net to catch me; : I am overcome with distress. : They dug a pit in my path, : but fell into it themselves. 
The human body wears out like a piece of clothing. The ancient law decrees that we must die. 
The farms near Heshbon and the vineyards of Sibmah are destroyed — those vineyards whose wine used to make the rulers of the nations drunk. At one time the vines spread as far as the city of Jazer, and eastwards into the desert, and westwards to the other side of the Dead Sea. 
No sinner can escape with what he has stolen. The Lord will reward the patience of devout people. 
No matter what you do, you will still be burnt to death or killed in battle. You will be wiped out like crops eaten up by locusts. : You multiplied like locusts! 
“All the people of the land must take these offerings to the ruling prince of Israel. 
Our buildings, all our land, our wheat fields, our livestock, and our tents are at your disposal; use them in any way you wish. 
they have rejected what is good. Because of this their enemies will pursue them. 
Make us strong again, : and we, your people, will praise you. 
but he answered, “Do you think this is enough for a hundred men?” : Elisha replied, “Give it to them to eat, because the LORD says that they will eat and still have some left over.” 
when the LORD comes to rule the earth. : He will rule the peoples of the world : with justice and fairness.
I am ready to risk my life. 
You recall what he did to Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab of the tribe of Reuben. In the sight of everyone the earth opened up and swallowed them, along with their families, their tents, and all their servants and animals. 
Then the Devil left Jesus; and angels came and helped him. 
You shall not sow your fields or harvest the corn that grows by itself or gather the grapes in your unpruned vineyards. 
Jeroboam also built places of worship on hilltops, and he chose priests from families who were not of the tribe of Levi. 
whoever believes in me should drink. As the scripture says, ‘Streams of life-giving water will pour out from his side.’ ”  
But that day Laban removed the male goats that had stripes or spots and all the females that were speckled and spotted or which had white on them; he also removed all the black sheep. He put his sons in charge of them, 
Then Amnon was filled with a deep hatred for her; he hated her now even more than he had loved her before. He said to her, “Get out!” 
It was in faith that all these persons died. They did not receive the things God had promised, but from a long way off they saw them and welcomed them, and admitted openly that they were foreigners and refugees on earth. 
Their leaders were Zerubbabel, Joshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, and Baanah. 
I was also telling them that the LORD had said, “I am going to give the city to the Babylonian army, and they will capture it.” 
Pilate was surprised to hear that Jesus was already dead. He called the army officer and asked him if Jesus had been dead a long time. 
“This region which the LORD has helped the Israelites to occupy — the towns of Ataroth, Dibon, Jazer, Nimrah, Heshbon, Elealeh, Sibmah, Nebo, and Beon — is good land for livestock, and we have so much livestock. 
These are the terms of the covenant that the LORD commanded Moses to make with the people of Israel in the land of Moab; all this was in addition to the covenant which the LORD had made with them at Mount Sinai. 
Be alert, stand firm in the faith, be brave, be strong. 
How terrible it will be in those days for women who are pregnant and for mothers with little babies!  
But whoever says evil things against the Holy Spirit will never be forgiven, because he has committed an eternal sin.”  
You know how my enemies hate me and how they plot against me. 
But the LORD is still in the city; he does what is right and never what is wrong. Every morning without fail, he brings justice to his people. And yet the unrighteous people there keep on doing wrong and are not ashamed. 
Go to the flock and pick out two fat young goats, so that I can cook them and make some of that food your father likes so much. 
But when the Jews opposed this, I was forced to appeal to the Emperor, even though I had no accusation to make against my own people. 
Joseph said, “This is what it means: the three branches are three days. 
Give me my wives and children that I have earned by working for you, and I will leave. You know how well I have served you.” 
So its young men will be killed in the city streets, and all its soldiers will be destroyed on that day. I, the LORD, have spoken. 
Find out what kind of country it is, how many people live there, and how strong they are. 
Keep an accurate record of any deposits you make or of anything you give or receive. 
“What do you think a man does who has 100 sheep and one of them gets lost? He will leave the other 99 grazing on the hillside and go and look for the lost sheep.  
Then all the people of Egypt will know that I am the LORD.” : The LORD says, “The Israelites relied on you Egyptians for support, but you were no better than a weak stick. 
then let my wife cook another man's food : and sleep in another man's bed. 
Their descendants continue to keep the covenant : and always will, because of what their ancestors did. 
Noah did everything that God commanded.
He held discussions in the synagogue every Sabbath, trying to convince both Jews and Greeks. 
and the Horites in the mountains of Edom, pursuing them as far as Elparan on the edge of the desert. 
It was still night, but the king got out of bed and said to his officials, “I'll tell you what the Syrians are planning! They know about the famine here, so they have left their camp to go and hide in the countryside. They think that we will leave the city to find food, and then they will take us alive and capture the city.” 
They forgot their God, their mighty saviour, : the one who had given them life. 
Its guardrooms, its entrance room, and its inner walls were the same size as those in the other gateways. There were also windows in the rooms of this gateway. The total length was 25 metres and the width 12.5 metres. 
You were set free from sin and became the slaves of righteousness. 
They brought the colt to Jesus, threw their cloaks over the animal, and Jesus got on. 
wild pigs trample it down, : and wild animals feed on it. 
So then, have your minds ready for action. Keep alert and set your hope completely on the blessing which will be given you when Jesus Christ is revealed. 
At the death of King Hazael of Syria his son Benhadad became king. 
But Jephthah said to them, “My people and I had a serious quarrel with the Ammonites. I did call you, but you would not rescue me from them. 
“I will let some escape the slaughter and be scattered among the nations, 
The LORD says, : “Babylon, come down from your throne, : and sit in the dust on the ground. : You were once like a virgin, a city unconquered, : but you are soft and delicate no longer! : You are now a slave! 
Do not eat pigs. They must be considered unclean; they have divided hoofs but do not chew the cud. Do not eat any of these animals or even touch their dead bodies. 
Thanks be to God, who does this through our Lord Jesus Christ! : This, then, is my condition: on my own I can serve God's law only with my mind, while my human nature serves the law of sin.
He took some of the oil and sprinkled it seven times on the altar and its equipment and on the basin and its base, in order to dedicate them to the LORD. 
So the man left and went all through the Ten Towns, telling what Jesus had done for him. And all who heard it were amazed. 
As soon as I learnt about this, I ran away from my people. God has sent me to do something with you that will amaze everyone in the entire world who hears about it. 
These were the cities and towns given to the families of the tribe of Gad as their possession. 
The Tent of the LORD's presence which Moses had made in the wilderness, and the altar on which sacrifices were burnt were still at the place of worship at Gibeon at this time; 
They were not given honourable burial like the heroes of ancient times, who went fully armed to the world of the dead, their swords placed under their heads and their shields over their bodies. These heroes were once powerful enough to terrify the living. 
But now don't be discouraged, any of you. Do the work, for I am with you. 
When Joseph got home, they took the gifts into the house to him and bowed down to the ground before him. 
Esau asked, “What about that other group I met? What did that mean?” : Jacob answered, “It was to gain your favour.” 
May he be tried and found guilty; : may even his prayer be considered a crime! 
Sorrow is better than laughter; it may sadden your face, but it sharpens your understanding. 
Ten towns in the territory of West Manasseh were assigned by lot to the rest of the clan of Kohath, family by family. 
In the fifteenth year of the reign of Amaziah son of Joash as king of Judah, Jeroboam son of Jehoash became king of Israel, and he ruled in Samaria for 41 years. 
Then he said, “Only Levites should carry the Covenant Box, because they are the ones the LORD chose to carry it and to serve him for ever.” 
The demons begged Jesus not to send them into the abyss. 
The doorposts of the Holy Place were square. : In front of the entrance of the Most Holy Place there was something that looked like 
The Pharisees heard that Jesus was winning and baptizing more disciples than John. 
“Lord, why can't I follow you now?” asked Peter. “I am ready to die for you!” 
They went to Eleazar the priest and to Joshua son of Nun and to the leaders, and said, “The LORD commanded Moses to give us, as well as our male relatives, a part of the land to possess.” So, as the LORD had commanded, they were given land along with their male relatives. 
Patient persuasion can break down the strongest resistance and can even convince rulers. 
He has taken away all my wealth : and destroyed my reputation. 
Now, when all the dead rise to life on the day of resurrection, whose wife will she be? All seven of them had married her.” 
You fool! Do you want to be shown that faith without actions is useless?  
“My son, be on your guard against prostitutes. Above all, marry a woman of our tribe, because we are descendants of the prophets. Do not marry anyone who is not related to us. Remember that Noah, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, our earliest ancestors, all married relatives. God blessed them with children, and so their descendants will inherit the land of Israel. 
He raises the poor from the dust; : he lifts the needy from their misery 
I will die in this land and never cross the river, but you are about to go across and occupy that fertile land. 
The Syrians realized that they had been defeated by the Israelites, so they called all their troops together. 
They were waiting for him to swell up or suddenly fall down dead. But after waiting for a long time and not seeing anything unusual happening to him, they changed their minds and said, “He is a god!” 
You must eat these things in a holy place, and only males may eat them; consider them holy. 
Thorns and thistles will grow up in all the palaces and walled towns, and jackals and owls will live in them. 
Every living being on the earth died — every bird, every animal, and every person. 
No soap can wash away my sins. 
and he stationed the men with drawn swords all round the front of the Temple, to protect the king. 
Those who work are paid wages, but they are not regarded as a gift; they are something that has been earned. 
For after what has happened today, there is the danger that we will be accused of a riot. There is no excuse for all this uproar, and we would not be able to give a good reason for it.” 
but the angel said to them, “Don't be afraid! I am here with good news for you, which will bring great joy to all the people. 
When Jesus entered Capernaum, a Roman officer met him and begged for help
‘Moab has fallen,’ they will answer, : ‘weep for it; it is disgraced. : Announce along the River Arnon : that Moab is destroyed!’ 
You will listen, O LORD, to the prayers of the lowly; : you will give them courage. 
And I will not take the whole kingdom away from him; instead, I will leave him one tribe for the sake of my servant David and for the sake of Jerusalem, the city I have made my own.” 
And so Paul left the meeting. 
About that time Judah left his brothers and went to stay with a man named Hirah, who was from the town of Adullam. 
Their owners kill them and go unpunished. They sell the meat and say, ‘Praise the LORD! We are rich!’ Even their own shepherds have no pity on them.” 
The LORD said, “Earth and sky, listen to what I am saying! The children I brought up have rebelled against me. 
The crowd was so large that Jesus told his disciples to get a boat ready for him, so that the people would not crush him. 
“It was also said, ‘Anyone who divorces his wife must give her a written notice of divorce.’  
the bravest men went and fetched the bodies of Saul and his sons and took them to Jabesh. They buried them there under an oak and fasted for seven days. 
In great anguish he prayed even more fervently; his sweat was like drops of blood falling to the ground. 
he must either be stoned or shot with arrows, without anyone touching him. This applies to both men and animals; they must be put to death. But when the trumpet is blown, then the people are to go up to the mountain.” 
They can teach you how to live intelligently and how to be honest, just, and fair. 
Absalom would say, “Look, the law is on your side, but there is no representative of the king to hear your case.” 
Is it easier to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Get up and walk’?  
Among the priests who lived in the cities assigned to Aaron's descendants, or in the pasture lands belonging to these cities, there were responsible men who distributed the food to all the males in the priestly families and to everyone who was on the rolls of the Levite clans. 
Ours is a great city, one of the most peaceful and loyal in Israel. Why are you trying to destroy it? Do you want to ruin what belongs to the LORD?” 
Doomed is the one who says, : “I will build myself a mansion : with spacious rooms upstairs.” : So he puts windows in his house, : panels it with cedar, : and paints it red. 
Remember that it was the women who followed Balaam's instructions and at Peor led the people to be unfaithful to the LORD. That was what brought the epidemic on the LORD's people. 
God blessed Noah and his sons and said, “Have many children, so that your descendants will live all over the earth. 
She became more of a prostitute than ever, acting just as she did as a young woman, when she was a prostitute in Egypt. 
There is no need to write to you, brothers and sisters, about the times and occasions when these things will happen. 
God is the one who has prepared us for this change, and he gave us his Spirit as the guarantee of all that he has in store for us. 
At last a king who did not know about Joseph began to rule in Egypt. 
“Where is your father?” they asked him. :   “You know neither me nor my Father,” Jesus answered. “If you knew me, you would know my Father also.” 
Why should the nations ask us, : “Where is your God?” 
If your situation takes a turn for the worse, they will turn against you, and you won't be able to find them anywhere. 
and began to tremble with fear. They all scattered in different directions from the camp, making no effort to stay together as they tried to escape along the paths in the mountains and valleys. 
The blind will be able to see, : and the deaf will hear. 
She set the food before Saul and his officers, and they ate it. And they left that same night.
I marked a boundary for the sea : and kept it behind bolted gates. 
When Isaiah received King Hezekiah's message, 
So Jesus answered them, “I am telling you the truth: the Son can do nothing on his own; he does only what he sees his Father doing. What the Father does, the Son also does.  
None of the local officials knew where I had been or what I had been doing. So far I had not said anything to any of my fellow-Jews — the priests, the leaders, the officials, or anyone else who would be taking part in the work. 
Jeremiah, ask the prophets, ‘What answer did the LORD give you? What did the LORD say?’ 
and God declared him to be high priest, in the priestly order of Melchizedek. 
They promised to divorce their wives, and they offered a ram as a sacrifice for their sins. 
I will fill the valleys with their dead bodies and will choke up every stream and river with so many corpses that they will all overflow. 
The LORD said, “People of Israel, you have sinned against me and opposed me. But now, come back to me! 
Not long afterwards Jesus was walking through some cornfields on the Sabbath. His disciples were hungry, so they began to pick ears of corn and eat the grain. 
and when you get there look for Jehu, the son of Jehoshaphat and grandson of Nimshi. Take him to a private room away from his companions, 
So the Pharisees asked the man once more, “You say he cured you of your blindness — well, what do you say about him?” : “He is a prophet,” the man answered. 
it is God who is the judge, : condemning some and acquitting others. 
King Hezekiah became very wealthy, and everyone held him in honour. He had storerooms built for his gold, silver, precious stones, spices, shields, and other valuable objects. 
the altar for burning incense and its poles; the anointing oil; the sweet-smelling incense; the curtain for the entrance of the Tent; 
When the time came to gather the grapes, he sent a slave to the tenants to receive from them his share of the harvest.  
The dragon was furious with the woman and went off to fight against the rest of her descendants, all those who obey God's commandments and are faithful to the truth revealed by Jesus. 
“Do not ill-treat or oppress a foreigner; remember that you were foreigners in Egypt. 
He was absolutely sure that God would be able to do what he had promised. 
From there he went to attack the people living in Debir. (This city used to be called Kiriath Sepher.) 
He turned their rivers into blood : and killed all their fish. 
The people of Beth Shemesh were harvesting wheat in the valley, when suddenly they looked up and saw the Covenant Box. They were overjoyed at the sight. 
Heaven reveals their sin, : and the earth gives testimony against them. 
But just before Tobit died, he sent for his son Tobias and told him, 
Then Solomon and all the people offered sacrifices to the LORD. 
war will come to your people, and all your fortresses will be destroyed. It will be like the day when King Shalman destroyed the city of Betharbel in battle, and mothers and their children were crushed to death. 
The God of Israel has spoken; : the protector of Israel said to me: : “The king who rules with justice, : who rules in obedience to God, 
So a report spread among the followers of Jesus that this disciple would not die. But Jesus did not say that he would not die; he said, “If I want him to live until I come, what is that to you?” 
She must not eat anything that comes from the grapevine; she must not drink any wine or beer, or eat any forbidden food. She must do everything that I have told her.” 
God knows everything I do; : he sees every step I take. 
When I act to protect my honour, you Israelites will know that I am the LORD, because I do not deal with you as your wicked, evil actions deserve.” The Sovereign LORD has spoken. 
I warned them, “It's no use waiting out there for morning to come. If you try this again, I'll use force against you.” From then on they did not come back on the Sabbath. 
So then, if food makes my brother or sister sin, I will never eat meat again, so as not to make my brother or sister fall into sin.
How can you keep her quiet? Have you ever tried to stop the wind or ever tried to hold a handful of oil? 
The LORD rewards me because I do what is right; : he blesses me because I am innocent. 
Respect your friends, and keep faith with them. If you do betray a friend's confidence, you may as well forget you have a friend. 
He has an unhealthy desire to argue and quarrel about words, and this brings on jealousy, disputes, insults, evil suspicions, 
David strapped Saul's sword over the armour and tried to walk, but he couldn't, because he wasn't used to wearing them. “I can't fight with all this,” he said to Saul. “I'm not used to it.” So he took it all off. 
“If in any of the towns in the land that the LORD your God is giving you there is a fellow-Israelite in need, then do not be selfish and refuse to help him. 
God may let them live secure, : but keeps an eye on them all the time. 
The road of the wicked, however, is dark as night. They fall, but cannot see what they have stumbled over. 
Wail, you merchants of Sidon! You sent men 
The LORD said to Aaron, “You will not receive any property that can be inherited, and no part of the land of Israel will be assigned to you. I, the LORD, am all you need.” 
All they had were some arguments with him about their own religion and about a man named Jesus, who has died; but Paul claims that he is alive. 
He did what was pleasing to the LORD, but he was not like his ancestor King David; instead, he did what his father Joash had done. 
He takes great pains to plough a straight furrow and will work far into the night to feed the animals. 
And the quality of each person's work will be seen when the Day of Christ exposes it. For on that Day fire will reveal everyone's work; the fire will test it and show its real quality. 
His family will be wealthy and rich, : and he will be prosperous for ever. 
When Peter saw the people, he said to them, “Fellow-Israelites, why are you surprised at this, and why do you stare at us? Do you think that it was by means of our own power or godliness that we made this man walk? 
Then I told Zedekiah that the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, had said, “If you surrender to the king of Babylonia's officers, your life will be spared, and this city will not be burnt down. Both you and your family will be spared. 
and he will give relief to you who suffer and to us as well. He will do this when the Lord Jesus appears from heaven with his mighty angels, 
Then David accepted what she had brought him and said to her, “Go back home and don't worry. I will do what you want.” 
Everyone whom my Father gives me will come to me. I will never turn away anyone who comes to me,  
Repent, then, and turn to God, so that he will forgive your sins. If you do, 
and died at the age of 905. 
At that time a man named Barabbas was in prison with the rebels who had committed murder in the riot. 
Isaiah said this because he saw Jesus' glory and spoke about him. 
He sent messengers to David to report: “I have attacked Rabbah and have captured its water supply. 
He stood by the royal column and made a covenant with the LORD to obey him, to keep his laws and commands with all his heart and soul, and to put into practice the demands attached to the covenant, as written in the book. And all the people promised to keep the covenant. 
They answered him with a shout, “No, not him! We want Barabbas!” (Barabbas was a bandit.)
Long live the king! : May he be given gold from Sheba; : may prayers be said for him at all times; : may God's blessings be on him always! 
By this time Gideon and his 300 men had come to the River Jordan and had crossed it. They were exhausted, but were still pursuing the enemy. 
So give us the order, sir, and we will look for a man who knows how to play the harp. Then when the evil spirit comes on you, the man can play his harp, and you will be all right again.” 
The two other officers and their men were killed by fire from heaven; but please be merciful to me!” 
They seized her, took her to the palace, and there at the Horse Gate they killed her. 
They have a king ruling over them, who is the angel in charge of the abyss. His name in Hebrew is Abaddon; in Greek the name is Apollyon (meaning “The Destroyer”). 
You stopped being angry with them : and held back your furious rage. 
The men who had been taking care of the pigs saw what happened, so they ran off and spread the news in the town and among the farms. 
“What is it?” Jesus asked them. 
The commander wanted to find out for certain what the Jews were accusing Paul of; so the next day he had Paul's chains taken off and ordered the chief priests and the whole Council to meet. Then he took Paul and made him stand before them.
God will attack the city, surround it, and besiege it. 
Then I saw a Lamb standing in the centre of the throne, surrounded by the four living creatures and the elders. The Lamb appeared to have been killed. It had seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God that have been sent throughout the whole earth. 
David said to her, “Praise the LORD, the God of Israel, who sent you today to meet me! 
Glory and majesty surround him; : power and beauty fill his Temple. 
There will be people in Jerusalem and on Mount Zion who will survive, because the LORD is determined to make this happen. 
and ran to Eli and said, “You called me, and here I am.” : But Eli answered, “I didn't call you; go back to bed.” So Samuel went back to bed. 
Turn that day into darkness, God. : Never again remember that day; : never again let light shine on it. 
The righteous will be happy, and things will go well for them. They will be able to enjoy what they have worked for. 
Everyone talks about how loyal and faithful he is, but just try to find someone who really is! 
Then the foolish ones said to the wise ones, ‘Let us have some of your oil, because our lamps are going out.’  
or to heal diseases or to speak in strange tongues or to explain what is said. 
They talk about me in the streets, : and drunkards make up songs about me. 
And so I, the Sovereign LORD, am telling you that I am your enemy. I will pass judgement on you where all the nations can see it. 
May God's grace be with you all.
Because of this, many of Jesus' followers turned back and would not go with him any more. 
Sing a new song to him, : play the harp with skill, and shout for joy! 
“You saw how our ancestors suffered in Egypt; : you heard their call for help at the Red Sea. 
So Peter gave them a complete account of what had happened from the very beginning
“Is the young man Absalom safe?” the king asked. : The slave answered, “I wish that what has happened to him would happen to all your enemies, sir, and to all who rebel against you.” 
There at the Beautiful Gate, as it was called, was a man who had been lame all his life. Every day he was carried to the gate to beg for money from the people who were going into the Temple. 
A sensible person gathers the crops when they are ready; it is a disgrace to sleep through the time of harvest. 
The LORD's people have denied him and have said, “He won't really do anything. We won't have hard times; we won't have war or famine.” 
They think that our moral standards are so corrupt that everything we do should be avoided. They boast of having God for their Father, and believe that only the righteous will die happy. 
You spend your life working, labouring, and what do you have to show for it? 
Kedemoth, and Mephaath, with their pasture lands. 
Kings all over the world heard of his wisdom and sent people to listen to him.
May they be like snails that dissolve into slime; : may they be like a baby born dead that never sees the light. 
“Be glad, people of Zion, : rejoice at what the LORD your God has done for you. : He has given you the right amount of autumn rain; : he has poured down the winter rain for you : and the spring rain as before. 
“Samaria did not sin half as much as you have. You have acted more disgustingly than she ever did. Your corruption makes your sisters look innocent by comparison. 
Each day for as long as he lived, he was given a regular allowance for his needs.
You have given them great joy,  LORD; : you have made them happy. : They rejoice in what you have done, : as people rejoice when they harvest their corn : or when they divide captured wealth. 
Even if there had been only one stubborn person, it would have been a miracle if he had escaped punishment. The Lord is merciful, but he can also become angry. He can be overwhelming in his forgiveness or in his anger. 
Moses killed it and took some of the blood, and with his finger put it on the projections at the corners of the altar, in order to dedicate it. He then poured out the rest of the blood at the base of the altar. In this way he dedicated it and purified it. 
My brothers and sisters, I face death every day! The pride I have in you, in our life in union with Christ Jesus our Lord, makes me declare this. 
Then the seventh angel poured out his bowl in the air. A loud voice came from the throne in the temple, saying, “It is done!” 
If he breaks a bone, one of his bones shall be broken; if he blinds him in one eye, one of his eyes shall be blinded; if he knocks out a tooth, one of his teeth shall be knocked out. Whatever injury he causes another person shall be done to him in return. 
But when the sun came up, it burnt the young plants; and because the roots had not grown deep enough, the plants soon dried up.  
When the wicked die, their hope dies with them. Confidence placed in riches comes to nothing. 
Then anoint them, just as you anointed their father, so that they can serve me as priests. This anointing will make them priests for all time to come.” 
he said that his wife Sarah was his sister. So King Abimelech of Gerar had Sarah brought to him. 
Oppose those who oppose me, LORD, : and fight those who fight against me! 
The queen of Sheba heard Solomon's wisdom and saw the palace he had built. 
All my words are sincere, : and I am speaking the truth. 
But we will make for you a chain of gold : with ornaments of silver. 
Then I would not keep on sinning, making one mistake after another. I could not fall to my enemies and be humiliated by them. 
I have never learned any wisdom, : and I know nothing at all about God. 
He has brought us by faith into this experience of God's grace, in which we now live. And so we boast of the hope we have of sharing God's glory! 
Some wanted to seize him, but no one laid a hand on him. 
Praise the LORD! : Praise God in his Temple! : Praise his strength in heaven! 
The people of Israel divided the land as the LORD had commanded Moses. 
The tents of Israel are beautiful, 
Adonijah, in great fear of Solomon, went to the Tent of the LORD's presence and took hold of the corners of the altar.  
Save me from the sword; : save my life from these dogs. 
A stupid person will peep into someone's house through the door and then march right in, but someone with experience and good manners will have enough respect to wait outside. 
The earth will crack and shatter and split open. 
The scripture says, ‘It is kindness that I want, not animal sacrifices.’ If you really knew what this means, you would not condemn people who are not guilty;  
The rest of the people of Israel were told, “Listen! The people of the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh have built an altar at Geliloth, on our side of the Jordan!” 
Happy is the nation of whom this is true; : happy are the people whose God is the LORD!
they asked the LORD, “Is there still someone else?” : The LORD answered, “Saul is over there, hiding behind the supplies.” 
Blind guides! You strain a fly out of your drink, but swallow a camel! 
That is how you are to deal with those cities that are far away from the land you will settle in. 
The LORD said, “This represents the way the Israelites will have to eat food which the Law forbids, when I scatter them to foreign countries.” 
“Happy are those whose wrongs are forgiven, : whose sins are pardoned! 
Before he had finished speaking, another servant came and said, “Lightning struck the sheep and the shepherds and killed them all. I am the only one who escaped to tell you.” 
“Attack the Midianites and destroy them, 
When Moses heard this, he was satisfied.
Your people knew that you would rescue the righteous nation and destroy their enemies. 
These, then, will be sent off to eternal punishment, but the righteous will go to eternal life.”
It must not be poured on ordinary men, and you must not use the same formula to make any mixture like it. It is holy, and you must treat it as holy. 
10b:   The angel said to me, “The seven lamps are the seven eyes of the LORD, which see all over the earth.” 
For they have killed your people; : they have ruined your country. 
I intend to break down the wall they whitewashed, to shatter it, and to leave the foundation stones bare. It will collapse and kill you all. Then everyone will know that I am the LORD. 
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and for ever. 
First, Moses proclaimed to the people all the commandments as set forth in the Law. Then he took the blood of bulls and goats, mixed it with water, and sprinkled it on the book of the Law and all the people, using a sprig of hyssop and some red wool. 
No one who visits her ever comes back. He never returns to the road to life. 
But David's men said to him, “We have enough to be afraid of here in Judah; it will be much worse if we go to Keilah and attack the Philistine forces!” 
Amaziah killed 10,000 Edomite soldiers in Salt Valley; he captured the city of Sela in battle and called it Joktheel, the name it still has. 
What if the Spirit of the LORD carries you off to some unknown place as soon as I leave? Then, when I tell Ahab that you are here, and he can't find you, he will put me to death. Remember that I have been a devout worshipper of the LORD ever since I was a boy. 
and prayed, “LORD God of Israel, there is no god like you in heaven above or on earth below! You keep your covenant with your people and show them your love when they live in wholehearted obedience to you. 
At last the Lord woke up as though from sleep; : he was like a strong man excited by wine. 
They are quick to hurt and kill; 
Think back to the ancient generations and consider this: has the Lord ever disappointed anyone who put his hope in him? Has the Lord ever abandoned anyone who held him in constant reverence? Has the Lord ever ignored anyone who prayed to him? 
If you hear such a report, then investigate it thoroughly. If it is true that this evil thing has happened in Israel, 
Hold firmly to the true words that I taught you, as the example for you to follow, and remain in the faith and love that are ours in union with Christ Jesus. 
As Jesus was leaving the Temple, one of his disciples said, “Look, Teacher! What wonderful stones and buildings!” 
But if you can tell me both the dream and its meaning, I will reward you with gifts and great honour. Now then, tell me what the dream was and what it means.” 
the carpenters, the builders, and the masons, and buy the timber and the stones used in the repairs. 
Since all these things will be destroyed in this way, what kind of people should you be? Your lives should be holy and dedicated to God, 
You not only refused to help widows, : but you also robbed and ill-treated orphans. 
at the age of 32, and he ruled in Jerusalem for eight years. 
On every street you built places to worship idols and practise prostitution. But you are not out for money like a common prostitute. 
that he said, “I will wipe out these people I have created, and also the animals and the birds, because I am sorry that I made any of them.” 
They were soldiers in uniforms of purple, noblemen and high-ranking officers; all of them were handsome young cavalry officers. 
If you want to, you can keep the Lord's commands. You can decide whether you will be loyal to him or not. 
His disciples asked him, “Teacher, whose sin caused him to be born blind? Was it his own or his parents' sin?” 
Along the north side of this building was a passage five metres wide and fifty metres long, with entrances on that side. 
It was faith that made Abel offer to God a better sacrifice than Cain's. Through his faith he won God's approval as a righteous man, because God himself approved of his gifts. By means of his faith Abel still speaks, even though he is dead. 
So Saul said to Doeg, “You kill them!” — and Doeg killed them all. On that day he killed 85 priests who were qualified to carry the ephod. 
Look at the monster Behemoth; : I created him and I created you. : He eats grass like a cow, 
How can you be so foolish! You began by God's Spirit; do you now want to finish by your own power? 
David felt homesick and said, “How I wish someone would bring me a drink of water from the well by the gate at Bethlehem!” 
When the sun had set and it was dark, a smoking fire-pot and a flaming torch suddenly appeared and passed between the pieces of the animals. 
Those who make linen cloth will be in despair; 
He came to us, took Paul's belt, tied up his own feet and hands with it, and said, “This is what the Holy Spirit says: The owner of this belt will be tied up in this way by the Jews in Jerusalem, and they will hand him over to the Gentiles.” 
Jesus looked round and saw that a large crowd was coming to him, so he asked Philip, “Where can we buy enough food to feed all these people?”  
But to show you my power I have let you live so that my fame might spread over the whole world. 
He has decided the number of the stars : and calls each one by name. 
So the clan of Merari was assigned a total of twelve cities. 
The LORD has saved me from lions and bears; he will save me from this Philistine.” : “All right,” Saul answered. “Go, and the LORD be with you.” 
Clan of Bebai: Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, and Athlai 
At the entrance to the city, : beside the gates, she calls
They would not have been guilty of sin if I had not come and spoken to them; as it is, they no longer have any excuse for their sin.  
When it was evening, Jesus came with the twelve disciples. 
When they reached the large rock at Gibeon, Amasa met them. Joab was dressed for battle, with a sword in its sheath fastened to his belt. As he came forward, the sword fell out. 
another went towards Beth Horon, and the other one went to the border overlooking the Valley of Zeboim and the wilderness. 
Who can hear what God is saying. : With staring eyes I see in a trance : A vision from Almighty God. 
Praise him, all his angels, : all his heavenly armies. 
He took the measuring rod and measured the east side, and it was 250 metres. 
Joseph said to them, “No! You have come to find out where our country is weak.” 
How good it is to give thanks to you, O LORD, : to sing in your honour, O Most High God, 
Instead he chose the tribe of Judah : and Mount Zion, which he dearly loves. 
They will become prosperous again, and you and your villages will also be restored. 
Their fame is ended at home and abroad; : no one remembers them any more. 
and he said, “Do it again” — and they did. “Do it once more,” he said — and they did. 
with water it will sprout like a young plant. 
Do not be like your ancestors and your fellow-Israelites who were unfaithful to the LORD their God. As you can see, he punished them severely. 
“ ‘Worship no god but me. 
Not only those things; I reckon everything as complete loss for the sake of what is so much more valuable, the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have thrown everything away; I consider it all as mere refuse, so that I may gain Christ 
As soon as Jezebel received the message, she said to Ahab, “Naboth is dead. Now go and take possession of the vineyard which he refused to sell to you.” 
My life has been an example to many, : because you have been my strong defender. 
But if they tell us to go to them, then we will, because that will be the sign that the LORD has given us victory over them.” 
for planning skilful designs and working them in gold, silver, and bronze; 
This then is what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying: your sins are exposed. Everyone knows how guilty you are. You show your sins in your every action. You stand condemned, and I will hand you over to your enemies. 
It was then he saw wisdom and tested its worth — : He gave it his approval. 
and speaking for the whole community of the LORD, they said to them, “Why have you done this evil thing against the God of Israel? You have rebelled against the LORD by building this altar for yourselves! You are no longer following him! 
Send your light and your truth; : may they lead me : and bring me back to Zion, your sacred hill, : and to your Temple, where you live. 
Sing to the glory of his name; : offer him glorious praise! 
and then go into the inner courtyard of the Temple and offer a sacrifice for his purification, so that he can serve in the Temple again. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken. 
Instead of this, of his own free will he gave up all he had, : and took the nature of a servant. : He became like a human being : and appeared in human likeness. 
I will always put my hope in you; : I will praise you more and more. 
because that's where the people of Bethulia come to draw their water. Then, when they are dying of thirst, they will surrender their town to you. Meanwhile, we and our men will go up to the tops of the surrounding mountains, where we will set up camp and keep anyone from leaving the town. 
And so God's judgement will fall on pagan idols, because, even though they are made from something God created, they become horrible things that trap the souls of foolish people. 
From the head of the idol of the Ammonite god Molech David took a gold crown which weighed about 35 kilogrammes and had a jewel in it. David took the jewel and put it in his own crown. He also took a large amount of loot from the city 
From there the men of Judah marched against the city of Debir, at that time called Kiriath Sepher. 
Then Samuel took a stone, set it up between Mizpah and Shen, and said, “The LORD has helped us all the way” — and he named it “Stone of Help”. 
How much worse it will be for evil men who murder an innocent man asleep in his own house! I will now take revenge on you for murdering him and will wipe you off the face of the earth!” 
He will be widely praised for his wisdom, and it will never be lost, because people for generations to come will remember him. 
I walk the way of righteousness; : I follow the paths of justice, 
He said to me, “Destruction will boil over from the north on all who live in this land, 
I myself will be filled with joy because of Jerusalem and her people. There will be no weeping there, no calling for help. 
The LORD hates people who cheat. 
So, as it began to get dark, they went to the Syrian camp, but when they reached it, no one was there. 
I have obeyed the law of the LORD; : I have not turned away from my God. 
Fearing the Lord is Wisdom and an education in itself. He is pleased by loyalty and humility. 
When you hear the sound of marching in the treetops, then attack, because I will be marching ahead of you to defeat the Philistine army.” 
The man answered, ‘This is how I will find out if you are honest men: one of you will stay with me; the rest will take corn for your starving families and leave. 
Jesus again used parables in talking to the people. 
But this disaster did not strike your people. Instead, you gave them the food of angels. From heaven you sent down bread that was ready to eat, and they did not have to prepare it. The food you gave delighted everyone, no matter what his taste. 
Because you are righteous, help me and rescue me. : Listen to me and save me! 
He answered, “If they tie me with new ropes that have never been used, I'll be as weak as anybody else.” 
The descendants of those who oppressed you will come : And bow low to show their respect. : All who once despised you will worship at your feet. : They will call you ‘The City of the LORD’, : ‘Zion, the City of Israel's Holy God’. 
Jesus went on to say, “The Kingdom of God is like this. A man scatters seed in his field.  
including the five kings of Midian: Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur, and Reba. They also killed Balaam son of Beor. 
who has placed his mark of ownership upon us, and who has given us the Holy Spirit in our hearts as the guarantee of all that he has in store for us. 
Burn their idols. Do not desire the silver or gold that is on them, and do not take it for yourselves. If you do, that will be fatal, because the LORD hates idolatry. 
Her people groan as they look for something to eat; : They exchange their treasures for food to keep themselves alive. : “Look at me, LORD,” the city cries; “see me in my misery.” 
This is a message about Tyre. : Howl with grief, you sailors out on the ocean! Your home port of Tyre has been destroyed; its houses and its harbour are in ruins. As your ships return from Cyprus, you learn the news. 
Now they come and laugh at me; : I am nothing but a joke to them. 
Suddenly the LORD sent a fire, and it consumed the burnt offering and the fat parts on the altar. When the people saw it, they all shouted and bowed down with their faces to the ground.
He will shoot his arrows at them : and make them turn and run. 
In the plains of Moab across the Jordan from Jericho the LORD said to Moses, 
I will purify them from the sins that they have committed against me, and I will forgive their sins and their rebellion. 
“I'll be glad to, sir,” Judith replied; “this is the happiest day of my life.” 
I, the LORD, promise that there will always be a descendant of David to be king of Israel 
A priest's daughter who marries someone who is not a priest may not eat any of the sacred offerings. 
When the seventy years are over, the LORD will let Tyre go back to her old trade, and she will hire herself out to all the kingdoms of the world. 
He reflects the brightness of God's glory and is the exact likeness of God's own being, sustaining the universe with his powerful word. After achieving forgiveness for human sins, he sat down in heaven at the right-hand side of God, the Supreme Power. 
He keeps your borders safe : and satisfies you with the finest wheat. 
and vultures are waiting to eat their corpses. : They know their future is dark; 
The people who live in darkness : will see a great light. : On those who live in the dark land of death : the light will shine.” 
Some time later King Agrippa and Bernice came to Caesarea to pay a visit of welcome to Festus. 
May the LORD our God be with us, as he was with our ancestors; may he never leave us, or abandon us; 
Someone will say, “I am allowed to do anything.” Yes; but not everything is good for you. I could say that I am allowed to do anything, but I am not going to let anything make me its slave. 
Does this mean that the Law is against God's promises? No, not at all! For if human beings had received a law that could bring life, then everyone could be put right with God by obeying it. 
Their sufferings were light compared with the blessings they will receive. God has tested them, like gold in a furnace, and found them worthy to be with him. 
Jehoram son of King Jehoshaphat of Judah had six brothers: Azariah, Jehiel, Zechariah, Azariahu, Michael, and Shephatiah. 
I also piled up silver and gold from the royal treasuries of the lands I ruled. Men and women sang to entertain me, and I had all the women a man could want. 
“Stop,” Samuel ordered, “and I will tell you what the LORD said to me last night.” : “Tell me,” Saul said. 
Don't be ashamed to confess your sins; there's no point in trying to stop a river from flowing. 
Have the same concern for everyone. Do not be proud, but accept humble duties. Do not think of yourselves as wise. 
Jacob was in love with Rachel, so he said, “I will work seven years for you, if you will let me marry Rachel.” 
“I will give you the land of Canaan,” he said. : “It will be your own possession.” 
So now I, the Sovereign LORD, am telling them that they are just as useless as that. I will bring them all together in Jerusalem 
On that day even the bravest soldiers will drop their weapons and run.” The LORD has spoken.
Holofernes and his personal servants were pleased with what Judith had said, and they admired her wisdom. 
Stupid people are happy with their foolishness, but the wise will do what is right. 
And as for you, Capernaum! Did you want to lift yourself up to heaven? You will be thrown down to hell! If the miracles which were performed in you had been performed in Sodom, it would still be in existence today!  
So Bathsheba went to the king to speak to him on behalf of Adonijah. The king stood up to greet his mother and bowed to her. Then he sat on his throne and had another one brought in on which she sat at his right. 
The creatures themselves darted to and fro with the speed of lightning. 
Suddenly the LORD said to Moses, Aaron, and Miriam, “I want the three of you to come out to the Tent of my presence.” They went, 
So Saul said to his men, “Count the soldiers and find out who is missing.” They did so and found that Jonathan and the young man who carried his weapons were missing. 
The LORD watches over those who obey him, : those who trust in his constant love. 
The servant fell on his knees before the king. ‘Be patient with me,’ he begged, ‘and I will pay you everything!’  
You caused abundant rain to fall : and restored your worn-out land; 
My people, remember what King Balak of Moab planned to do to you and how Balaam son of Beor answered him. Remember the things that happened on the way from the camp at Acacia to Gilgal. Remember these things and you will realize what I did in order to save you.” 
At that time many nations will come to the LORD and become his people. He will live among you, and you will know that he has sent me to you. 
The LORD answered, “I will forgive them, as you have asked. 
Instead, in order that none of you be deceived by sin and become stubborn, you must help one another every day, as long as the word “Today” in the scripture applies to us. 
Its hands have no power, but he asks it to help him — in business, in making money, and in his work.
God will crowd kings together like prisoners in a pit. He will shut them in prison until the time of their punishment comes. 
In the case of an engaged couple who have decided not to marry: if the man feels that he is not acting properly towards the young woman and if his passions are too strong and he feels that they ought to marry, then they should get married, as he wants to. There is no sin in this. 
May our cattle reproduce plentifully : without miscarriage or loss. : May there be no cries of distress in our streets. 
“How great are the wonders God shows us! : How powerful are the miracles he performs! : God is king for ever; he will rule for all time. 
And you agreed that this was a good thing to do. 
Zedekiah rebelled against King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia, so Nebuchadnezzar came with all his army and attacked Jerusalem on the tenth day of the tenth month of the ninth year of Zedekiah's reign. They set up camp outside the city, built siege walls round it, 
So let Your Majesty issue this order and sign it, and it will be in force, a law of the Medes and Persians, which cannot be changed.” 
You will lie groaning on your deathbed, your flesh and muscles being eaten away, 
Then David ordered Joab and his men to tear their clothes, wear sackcloth, and mourn for Abner. And at the funeral King David himself walked behind the coffin. 
These cities will belong to the Levites, and they will live there. The pasture land will be for their cattle and all their other animals. 
It then turned north to Enshemesh and then on to Geliloth, opposite Adummim Pass. The border then went down to the Stone of Bohan (Bohan was a son of Reuben) 
Artaxerxes gave the following document to Ezra, the priest and scholar, who had a thorough knowledge of the laws and commands which the LORD had given to Israel
When David was at Hebron, many trained soldiers joined his army to help make him king in place of Saul, as the LORD had promised. Their numbers were as follows
Count among your treasures the fact that you give to the poor. It will save you from all kinds of trouble 
Their kings revolt, : their rulers plot together against the LORD : and against the king he chose. 
Watch, then, and remember that with many tears, day and night, I taught every one of you for three years. 
son of Abishua, son of Phinehas, son of Eleazar, son of Aaron. 
The people of Bethel had sent Sharezer and Regemmelech and their men to the Temple of the LORD Almighty to pray for the LORD's blessing 
They sailed to the land of Ophir, and brought back to Solomon more than fourteen tonnes of gold.
When Almighty God scattered the kings on Mount Zalmon, : he caused snow to fall there. 
As the Sovereign LORD is holy, he has promised, “The days will come when they will drag you away with hooks; every one of you will be like a fish on a hook. 
And God said to him, “I am Almighty God. Have many children. Nations will be descended from you, and you will be the ancestor of kings. 
The uproar spread throughout the whole city. The mob seized Gaius and Aristarchus, two Macedonians who were travelling with Paul, and rushed with them to the theatre. 
“At that time the bones of the kings and of the officials of Judah, as well as the bones of the priests, of the prophets, and of the other people who lived in Jerusalem, will be taken out of their graves. 
The Lord saw what they were doing and became angry, so furious that he performed a miracle and destroyed them in a blazing fire. 
This included Hebron in the territory of Judah and the pasture lands round it. 
“There is plenty of straw and fodder at our house, and there is a place for you to stay.” 
Meanwhile the people of Benjamin heard that all the other Israelites had gathered at Mizpah. : The Israelites asked, “Tell us, how was this crime committed?” 
Sing praise to the LORD; : tell the wonderful things he has done. 
If you are invited to the home of someone influential, be reserved in your behaviour. Then he will invite you more often. 
For the Kingdom of God is not a matter of words but of power. 
Hebron still belongs to the descendants of Caleb son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite, because he faithfully obeyed the LORD, the God of Israel. 
and they sent the following letter by them: : “We, the apostles and the elders, your brothers, send greetings to all our brothers of Gentile birth who live in Antioch, Syria, and Cilicia. 
Stop believing those deceitful words, ‘We are safe! This is the LORD's Temple, this is the LORD's Temple, this is the LORD's Temple!’ 
It is well known that he was born a member of the tribe of Judah; and Moses did not mention this tribe when he spoke of priests. 
Then, in the LORD's presence you will recite these words: ‘My ancestor was a wandering Aramean, who took his family to Egypt to live. They were few in number when they went there, but they became a large and powerful nation. 
That is why there is no rain and nothing can grow. 
“Let the fig tree teach you a lesson. When its branches become green and tender and it starts putting out leaves, you know that summer is near.  
King David put Asaph and his fellow-Levites in permanent charge of the worship that was held at the place where the Covenant Box was kept. They were to perform their duties there day by day. 
King Solomon also built a fleet of ships at Eziongeber, which is near Elath, on the shore of the Gulf of Aqaba, in the land of Edom. 
Whenever I am anxious and worried, : you comfort me and make me glad. 
‘Let us pass through your country. We will go straight through and not leave the road. 
Ner was the father of Kish, and Kish was the father of King Saul. Saul had four sons: Jonathan, Malchishua, Abinadab, and Eshbaal.  
In the 39th year that Asa was king, he was crippled by a severe foot disease; but even then he did not turn to the LORD for help, but to doctors. 
Do your best to come before winter. : Eubulus, Pudens, Linus, and Claudia send their greetings, and so do all the other Christians. 
No! I can't be quiet! : I am angry and bitter. : I have to speak. 
If you do what is wrong, you will be severely punished; you will die if you do not let yourself be corrected. 
God alone knows the way, : Knows the place where wisdom is found, 
David had been thinking, “Why did I ever protect that fellow's property out here in the wilderness? Not a thing that belonged to him was stolen, and this is how he pays me back for the help I gave him! 
He takes no pleasure in causing us grief or pain. 
“What do you want me to do for you?” : “Sir,” he answered, “I want to see again.” 
Then he would go back to his home in Ramah, where also he would serve as judge. In Ramah he built an altar to the LORD.
Curse that night for letting me be born, : for exposing me to trouble and grief. 
And so I will come to you full of joy, if it is God's will, and enjoy a refreshing visit to you. 
During his reign Hiel from Bethel rebuilt Jericho. As the LORD had foretold through Joshua son of Nun, Hiel lost his eldest son Abiram when he laid the foundation of Jericho, and his youngest son Segub when he built the gates.
But we will praise these godly men, : whose righteous deeds have never been forgotten. 
I am worn out, O LORD; have pity on me! : Give me strength; I am completely exhausted 
Don't let them say to themselves, : “We are rid of him! : That's just what we wanted!” 
Then that fool will say, “Nobody likes me. Nobody appreciates what I do for them. They'll take what I give them, but then talk about me behind my back.” 
And the women added, “When we baked cakes shaped like the Queen of Heaven, offered sacrifices to her, and poured out wine offerings to her, our husbands approved of what we were doing.” 
I am your enemy and the enemy of your Nile. I will make all of Egypt an empty waste, from the city of Migdol in the north to the city of Aswan in the south, all the way to the Ethiopian border. 
instruments like those that King David had used. The priests also stood there with trumpets. 
I praise you because you have made me glad; : you have been merciful to us, : and my worst fears did not come true. 
he sent a large force there with horses and chariots. They reached the town at night and surrounded it. 
“So do not start worrying: ‘Where will my food come from? or my drink? or my clothes?’  
because you still live as the people of this world live. When there is jealousy among you and you quarrel with one another, doesn't this prove that you belong to this world, living by its standards? 
I do this so that everyone : from one end of the world to the other : may know that I am the LORD : and that there is no other god. 
Masters, be fair and just in the way you treat your slaves. Remember that you too have a Master in heaven. 
The time of plenty will be entirely forgotten, because the famine which follows will be so terrible. 
When that day comes, you will know that I am in my Father and that you are in me, just as I am in you. 
If she won't do as you tell her, divorce her.
“Why are you amazed?” the angel asked me. “I will tell you the secret meaning of the woman and of the beast that carries her, the beast with seven heads and ten horns. 
John did not refuse to answer, but spoke out openly and clearly, saying: “I am not the Messiah.” 
But if you have committed adultery, 
When the citizens of Canaan saw those people mourning at Atad, they said, “What a solemn ceremony of mourning the Egyptians are holding!” That is why the place was named Abel Mizraim. 
David went to the priest Ahimelech in Nob. Ahimelech came out trembling to meet him and asked, “Why did you come here all by yourself?” 
They said to Moses, “Weren't there any graves in Egypt? Did you have to bring us out here in the desert to die? Look what you have done by bringing us out of Egypt! 
Then she became pregnant again and gave birth to another son. She said, “This time I will praise the LORD”; so she named him Judah. Then she stopped having children.
He tore the sky apart and came down, : with a dark cloud under his feet. 
Then the LORD said to Moses, “Now you are going to see what I will do to the king. I will force him to let my people go. In fact, I will force him to drive them out of his land.” 
Then he sent them out in three groups, with Joab and Joab's brother Abishai and Ittai from Gath, each in command of a group. And the king said to his men, “I will go with you myself.” 
“Yes,” Jesus said to them, “and I tell you that anyone who leaves home or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for me and for the gospel,  
Once they were proud of their beautiful jewels, but they used them to make disgusting idols. That is why the LORD has made their wealth repulsive to them. 
At the king's command the riders mounted royal horses and rode off at top speed. The decree was also made public in Susa, the capital city. 
On the eighth day he shall take two doves or two pigeons to the entrance of the Tent of the LORD's presence and give them to the priest. 
He has been raised to the right-hand side of God, his Father, and has received from him the Holy Spirit, as he had promised. What you now see and hear is his gift that he has poured out on us. 
Your land by the sea will become open fields with shepherds' huts and sheep pens. 
remember this: whoever turns a sinner back from his or her wrong way will save that sinner's soul from death and bring about the forgiveness of many sins.
Joseph answered, “Bring your livestock; I will give you food in exchange for it if your money is all gone.” 
Warn them that they must prepare their offerings of earth and water to show that they have surrendered unconditionally. I will make them feel the full force of my anger and completely destroy them. My armies will march over every foot of their land and plunder it as they go. 
He said, “Please tell me who your father is. Is there room in his house for my men and me to spend the night?” 
Make a bronze grating and put four bronze carrying rings on its corners. 
He built it on the deep waters beneath the earth : and laid its foundations in the ocean depths. 
if they pick up snakes or drink any poison, they will not be harmed; they will place their hands on sick people, who will get well.” 
When the Israelites came back from pursuing the Philistines, they looted their camp. 
and said to them, “The LORD, the God of Israel, says, ‘I brought you out of Egypt and rescued you from the Egyptians and all the other peoples who were oppressing you. 
Some sailed over the ocean in ships, : earning their living on the seas. 
All who see me jeer at me; : they stick out their tongues and shake their heads. 
After you have performed your duties, you can sit down and enjoy yourself with the others. They will respect you for doing a good job. 
The LORD will cover your legs with incurable, painful sores; boils will cover you from head to foot. 
But Jesus kept looking round to see who had done it. 
At God's command amazing things happen, : wonderful things that we can't understand. 
Have nothing to do with the worthless things that people do, things that belong to the darkness. Instead, bring them out to the light. 
When Jesus heard about the plot against him, he went away from that place; and large crowds followed him. He healed all those who were ill 
When God said that he would destroy his people, : his chosen servant, Moses, stood up against God : and prevented his anger from destroying them. 
I will make him my firstborn son, : the greatest of all kings. 
Follow the LORD and honour him; obey him and keep his commands; worship him and be faithful to him. 
The LORD will also put the people of Ethiopia to death. 
An uneducated king will ruin his people, but a government will grow strong if its rulers are wise. 
Tell my father how powerful I am here in Egypt and tell him about everything that you have seen. Then hurry and bring him here.” 
You need to be patient, in order to do the will of God and receive what he promises. 
Some time later the widow's son fell ill; he got worse and worse, and finally he died. 
O God, do not take me away now : before I grow old. : O LORD, you live for ever; 
I will give them a new heart and a new mind. I will take away their stubborn heart of stone and will give them an obedient heart. 
“Do for others what you want them to do for you: this is the meaning of the Law of Moses and of the teachings of the prophets. 
Jacob woke up and said, “The LORD is here! He is in this place, and I didn't know it!” 
It is wise to fear the LORD. He calls to the city, “Listen, you people who assemble in the city!  
“I myself will teach your people, : and give them prosperity and peace. 
“Go in peace,” Eli said, “and may the God of Israel give you what you have asked him for.” 
And as she was going to get it, he called out, “And please bring me some bread, too.” 
Daniel replied, “Keep your gifts for yourself or give them to someone else. I will read for Your Majesty what has been written and tell you what it means. 
Now do not be upset or blame yourselves because you sold me here. It was really God who sent me ahead of you to save people's lives. 
Lot looked round and saw that the whole Jordan Valley, all the way to Zoar, had plenty of water, like the Garden of the LORD or like the land of Egypt. (This was before the LORD had destroyed the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah.) 
and Moses said to them, “Be ready by the day after tomorrow and don't have sexual intercourse in the meantime.” 
The LORD heard them and helped them to conquer the Canaanites. So the Israelites completely destroyed them and their cities, and named the place Hormah. 
The Jews seized this man and were about to kill him. I learnt that he was a Roman citizen, so I went with my soldiers and rescued him. 
Think of what he went through; how he put up with so much hatred from sinners! So do not let yourselves become discouraged and give up. 
He commands the sea, and it dries up! : He makes the rivers go dry. : The fields of Bashan wither, : Mount Carmel turns brown, : and the flowers of Lebanon fade. 
You can see for yourself that just now in the cave the LORD put you in my power. Some of my men told me to kill you, but I felt sorry for you and said that I would not harm you in the least, because you are the one whom the LORD chose to be king. 
“Assemble and listen, all of you! : None of the gods could predict : that the man I have chosen would attack Babylon; : he will do what I want him to do. 
“So then, after we had stayed at Kadesh for a long time,
He replied, “If the LORD won't help you, what help can I provide? Have I got any wheat or wine? 
I will praise you, LORD, with all my heart; : I will tell of all the wonderful things you have done. 
This was the LORD God Almighty — the LORD is the name by which he is to be worshipped. 
I will keep the promise I made to your father David when I told him that Israel would always be ruled by his descendants. 
I thought you would listen to me and save me from the one who is trying to kill my son and me and so remove us from the land God gave his people. 
The Spirit of the LORD came upon him, and he became Israel's leader. Othniel went to war, and the LORD gave him victory over the king of Mesopotamia. 
Dance, dance, girl of Shulam. : Let us watch you as you dance. : Why do you want to watch me : as I dance between the rows of onlookers?
There is more hope for a stupid fool than for someone who speaks without thinking. 
He went over to him, poured oil and wine on his wounds and bandaged them; then he put the man on his own animal and took him to an inn, where he took care of him.  
David asked the LORD, “Shall I go after those raiders? And will I catch them?” : He answered, “Go after them; you will catch them and rescue the captives.” 
He works the clay with his feet until he can shape it with his hands; then he takes great pains to glaze it properly, and will work far into the night to clean out the kiln. 
But the Israelites could not kill them, because their leaders had made a solemn promise to them in the name of the LORD, Israel's God. All the people complained to the leaders about this, 
In that first slaughter Jonathan and the young man killed about twenty men in an area of about a quarter of a hectare.  
Jesus said, “Do you believe just because I told you I saw you when you were under the fig tree? You will see much greater things than this!”  
Jerusalem was a large city, but not many people were living in it, and not many houses had been built yet. 
On the south, those under the banner of the division of Reuben shall camp in their groups, under their leaders, as follows: :  :  :  : Reuben : Elizur son of Shedeur : 46,500 : Simeon : Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai : 59,300 : Gad : Eliasaph son of Deuel : 45,650 : Total: : 151,450 : The division of Reuben shall march second. 
I will hand the Egyptians over to a tyrant, to a cruel king who will rule them. I, the LORD Almighty, have spoken.” 
Instead, it was a better country they longed for, the heavenly country. And so God is not ashamed for them to call him their God, because he has prepared a city for them. 
All night long I lie awake, : to meditate on your instructions. 
Let's build a small room on the roof, put a bed, a table, a chair, and a lamp in it, and he can stay there whenever he visits us.” 
What shall I ask you to do to these people? Make their women barren! Make them unable to nurse their babies! 
If an individual sins unintentionally, he is to offer a one-year-old female goat as a sin offering. 
Be happy with those who are happy, weep with those who weep. 
In all, 284 Levites lived in the holy city of Jerusalem.
Lord, have mercy on Israel, the people who are known by your name, whom you called your firstborn son. 
The LORD's command to Israel not to take from Jericho anything that was to be destroyed was not obeyed. A man named Achan disobeyed that order, and so the LORD was furious with the Israelites. (Achan was the son of Carmi and grandson of Zabdi, and belonged to the clan of Zerah, a part of the tribe of Judah.) 
He also killed an Egyptian, a huge man who was armed with a spear. Benaiah attacked him with his club, snatched the spear from the Egyptian's hand, and killed him with it. 
Remember what I told you: ‘Slaves are not greater than their master.’ If people persecuted me, they will persecute you too; if they obeyed my teaching, they will obey yours too.  
But the people said to Saul, “Will Jonathan, who won this great victory for Israel, be put to death? No! We promise by the living LORD that he will not lose even a hair from his head. What he did today was done with God's help.” So the people saved Jonathan from being put to death. 
“The LORD will bless your towns and your fields. 
But the LORD defends me; : my God protects me. 
and he went to the spring, threw the salt in the water, and said, “This is what the LORD says: ‘I make this water pure, and it will not cause any more deaths or miscarriages.’ ” 
So Jacob got ready to go back to his father in the land of Canaan. He put his children and his wives on the camels, and drove all his flocks ahead of him, with everything that he had acquired in Mesopotamia. 
and explaining the Scriptures and proving from them that the Messiah had to suffer and rise from death. “This Jesus whom I announce to you,” Paul said, “is the Messiah.” 
Your righteousness is towering like the mountains; : your justice is like the depths of the sea. : People and animals are in your care. 
Then she called her husband and said to him, “Send a servant here with a donkey. I need to go to the prophet Elisha. I'll be back as soon as I can.” 
I am like a stranger to my relatives, : like a foreigner to my family. 
Do not believe me, then, if I am not doing the things my Father wants me to do.  
Then he turned round, saw me, and called to me. I answered, ‘Yes, sir!’ 
If your goals are good, you will be respected, but if you are looking for trouble, that is what you will get. 
What you have done will be praised from one generation to the next; : they will proclaim your mighty acts. 
goats, : strutting cocks, : and kings in front of their people. 
Let us see the Messiah, the king of Israel, come down from the cross now, and we will believe in him!” : And the two who were crucified with Jesus insulted him also. 
Samuel said to Saul, “Why have you disturbed me? Why did you make me come back?” : Saul answered, “I am in great trouble! The Philistines are at war with me, and God has abandoned me. He doesn't answer me any more, either by prophets or by dreams. And so I have called you, for you to tell me what I must do.” 
Everything else that Jehu did, including his brave deeds, is recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel. 
I regularly fed at my table 150 of the Jewish people and their leaders, besides all the people who came to me from the surrounding nations. 
A certain silversmith named Demetrius made silver models of the temple of the goddess Artemis, and his business brought a great deal of profit to the workers. 
She took the corn back into town and showed her mother-in-law how much she had gathered. She also gave her the food left over from the meal. 
The descendants of Ehud were Naaman, Ahijah, and Gera. They were heads of families that lived in Geba, but which were forced out and went to live in Manahath. Gera, the father of Uzza and Ahihud, led them in this move. 
They will fight against the Lamb; but the Lamb, together with his called, chosen, and faithful followers, will defeat them, because he is Lord of lords and King of kings.” 
Now, if you intend to fulfil your responsibility towards my master and treat him fairly, please tell me; if not, say so, and I will decide what to do.” 
While they look on helplessly, their babies will be battered to death, their houses will be looted, and their wives will be raped.” 
Pilate went back into the palace and called Jesus. “Are you the King of the Jews?” he asked him. 
Look at me. Isn't that enough : to make you stare in shocked silence? 
They trample down the weak and helpless and push the poor out of the way. A man and his father have intercourse with the same slave woman, and so profane my holy name. 
Our enemies are already in the city of Dan; we hear the snorting of their horses. The whole land trembles when their horses neigh. Our enemies have come to destroy our land and everything in it, our city and all its people.” 
Seek your happiness in the LORD, : and he will give you your heart's desire. 
At that moment the people who were about to die had terrible nightmares and were seized by sudden fear. 
How I wish I knew where to find him, : and knew how to go where he is. 
Early next morning the people of Ashdod saw that the statue of Dagon had fallen face downwards on the ground in front of the LORD's Covenant Box. So they lifted it up and put it back in its place. 
who have risked their lives in the service of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Some time later, the Philistines gathered their troops to fight Israel, and Achish said to David, “Of course you understand that you and your men are to fight on my side.” 
These evil people have refused to obey me. They have been as stubborn and wicked as ever, and have worshipped and served other gods. So then, they will become like these shorts that are no longer any good. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “grieve for the fate that is waiting for the king of Tyre. Tell him what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying: you were once an example of perfection. How wise and handsome you were! 
The LORD said, “Moab has always lived secure and has never been taken into exile. Moab is like wine left to settle undisturbed and never poured from jar to jar. Its flavour has never been ruined, and it tastes as good as ever. 
Wisdom was created before anything else; : understanding has always existed. 
because the Lamb, who is in the centre of the throne, will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of life-giving water. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.”
The man said, “They have already left. I heard them say that they were going to Dothan.” So Joseph went after his brothers and found them at Dothan. 
Then you must tell him that I, the LORD, say, ‘Israel is my firstborn son. 
Don't try to avoid farm work or other hard labour; the Most High has given us these jobs to do. 
I put jewels on you — bracelets and necklaces. 
He made four carrying rings of gold for it and attached them to its four feet, with two rings on each side. 
wherever people don't welcome you, leave that town and shake the dust off your feet as a warning to them.” 
Come, my young friends, and listen to me, : and I will teach you to honour the LORD. 
Then the two men left and went on towards Sodom, but the LORD remained with Abraham. 
the curtains and ropes for the court that is round the Tent and the altar, the curtains for the entrance of the court, and all the fittings used in setting up these objects. They shall perform all the tasks required for these things. 
But those tenants said to one another, ‘This is the owner's son. Come on, let's kill him, and his property will be ours!’  
The leaders brought carnelians and other jewels to be set in the ephod and the breastpiece 
But I had a frightening dream and saw terrifying visions while I was asleep. 
The king's men left the city, and then the gate was shut. They went looking for the Israelite spies as far as the place where the road crosses the Jordan. 
The LORD has called out his proud and confident soldiers to fight a holy war and punish those he is angry with. 
He gave them the following instructions: “You must perform your duties in reverence for the LORD, faithfully obeying him in everything you do. 
This is a message about the Valley of Vision. : What is happening? Why are all the people of the city celebrating on the roofs of the houses? 
Then compare us with the young men who are eating the food of the royal court, and base your decision on how we look.” 
So then, faith comes from hearing the message, and the message comes through preaching Christ. 
You will seek me, and you will find me because you will seek me with all your heart. 
“Lord, they have killed your prophets and torn down your altars; I am the only one left, and they are trying to kill me.” 
Each living creature had four different faces: a human face in front, a lion's face at the right, a bull's face at the left, and an eagle's face at the back. 
He says that you must go and get it for yourselves wherever you can find it, but you must still make the same number of bricks.” 
What you should say is this: “If the Lord is willing, we will live and do this or that.” 
He said to Samson, “I really thought that you hated her, so I gave her to your friend. But her younger sister is prettier, anyway. You can have her, instead.” 
My enemies want to kill me; : they talk and plot against me. 
“Put some salt in a new bowl, and bring it to me,” he ordered. They brought it to him, 
Put the grating under the rim of the altar, so that it reaches halfway up the altar. 
he gave them to Israel, his servant; : his love is eternal. 
Even her hired soldiers : are helpless as calves. : They did not stand and fight; : all of them turned and ran. : The day of their doom had arrived, : the time of their destruction. 
and burnt up their gods — which were no gods at all, only images of wood and stone made by human hands. 
I am always in your care; : save me from my enemies, : from those who persecute me. 
“In that city was a man named Ananias, a religious man who obeyed our Law and was highly respected by all the Jews living there. 
“Assyria is there, with the graves of her soldiers all around. They were all killed in battle, 
About three hours later his wife, not knowing what had happened, came in. 
the weakest kingdom of all, and they will never again rule over other nations. I will make them so unimportant that they will not be able to bend any other nation to their will. 
Adam and his wife had another son. She said, “God has given me a son to replace Abel, whom Cain killed.” So she named him Seth.  
When the men of that town saw them approaching, they picked up their weapons and ran to the top of the hill. Every man who used a sling as a weapon rained stones down on Holofernes' soldiers, and this stopped them from coming any farther up the mountain. 
The Israelites sinned against the LORD again, and he let the Philistines rule them for forty years. 
Mary remembered all these things and thought deeply about them. 
Then go to your countrymen who are in exile and tell them what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying to them, whether they pay attention to you or not.” 
Honour can be followed by disgrace, but there are people who have risen from obscurity to places of honour. 
All round the city on each side there will be an open space 125 metres across. 
The LORD rules over all nations; : his glory is above the heavens. 
So when the main army of the Israelites pulled back and regrouped at Baaltamar, the men surrounding Gibeah suddenly rushed out of their hiding places in the rocky country round the city.  
Jaaziah had three sons: Shoham, Zaccur, and Ibri. 
shining with the dazzling light of the LORD's presence, and they could not go back in to perform their duties. 
So Absalom said to his servants, “Look, Joab's field is next to mine, and it has barley growing in it. Go and set fire to it.” So they went and set the field on fire. 
But from now on the Son of Man will be seated on the right of Almighty God.” 
The tribe of Benjamin: the clans of Bela, Ashbel, Ahiram, 
When the wine had given out, Jesus' mother said to him, “They have no wine left.” 
‘No, indeed,’ the wise ones answered, ‘there is not enough for you and for us. Go to the shop and buy some for yourselves.’  
Jesus was surprised when he heard this; he turned round and said to the crowd following him, “I tell you, I have never found faith like this, not even in Israel!” 
God inspired me to assemble the people and their leaders and officials and to check their family records. I located the records of those who had first returned from captivity, and this is the information I found
So they arrested Jesus and held him tight. 
There I will meet the people of Israel, and the dazzling light of my presence will make the place holy. 
You were also a prostitute for the Babylonians, that nation of merchants, but they didn't satisfy you either.” 
Then all the Israelites went to the king and said to him, “Your Majesty, why did our brothers, the men of Judah, think they had the right to take you away and escort you, your family, and your men across the Jordan?” 
As the time drew near when Jesus would be taken up to heaven, he made up his mind and set out on his way to Jerusalem. 
The LORD lives! Praise my defender! : Proclaim the greatness of the strong God who saves me! 
It was still night as I left the city through the Valley Gate on the west and went south past Dragon's Fountain to the Rubbish Gate. As I went, I inspected the broken walls of the city and the gates that had been destroyed by fire. 
Paul and Barnabas got into a fierce argument with them about this, so it was decided that Paul and Barnabas and some of the others in Antioch should go to Jerusalem and see the apostles and elders about this matter. 
Then the king gave a great banquet in Esther's honour and invited all his officials and administrators. He proclaimed a holiday for the whole empire and distributed gifts worthy of a king. 
The Passover Festival in honour of the LORD is to be held on the fourteenth day of the first month. 
You Philistines are doomed, you people who live along the coast. The LORD has passed sentence on you. He will destroy you, and not one of you will be left. 
So I find that this law is at work: when I want to do what is good, what is evil is the only choice I have. 
You boast that you have made a treaty with death and reached an agreement with the world of the dead. You are certain that disaster will spare you when it comes, because you depend on lies and deceit to keep you safe. 
The teachings of the wise are a fountain of life; they will help you escape when your life is in danger. 
A bowl was there, full of cheap wine; so a sponge was soaked in the wine, put on a stalk of hyssop, and lifted up to his lips. 
Today you have shown how good you are to me, because you did not kill me, even though the LORD put me in your power. 
God continued, “Mortal man, pay close attention and remember everything I tell you. 
I turned round to see who was talking to me, and I saw seven gold lampstands, 
As a result, the LORD will severely punish your people, your children, and your wives, and will destroy your possessions. 
“When a foreigner who lives in a distant land hears of your fame and of the great things you have done for your people, and comes to worship you and to pray at this Temple, 
Gederoth, Bethdagon, Naamah, and Makkedah: sixteen cities, along with the towns round them. 
In the 27th year of the reign of King Jeroboam II of Israel, Uzziah son of Amaziah became king of Judah 
They would come with their livestock and tents, as thick as locusts. They and their camels were too many to count. They came and devastated the land, 
So he went to Ishmael son of Abraham and married his daughter Mahalath, who was the sister of Nebaioth. 
And Ahab asked Jehoshaphat, “Will you go with me to attack Ramoth?” : “I am ready when you are,” Jehoshaphat answered, “and so are my soldiers and my cavalry. 
After all, it is you — you, no less than others! — who are our hope, our joy, and our reason for boasting of our victory in the presence of our Lord Jesus when he comes. 
The army of Benjamin came out of the city, and before the day was over they had killed 22,000 Israelite soldiers. 
I must go down to find out whether or not the accusations which I have heard are true.” 
but Eleazar died without having any sons, only daughters. His daughters married their cousins, the sons of Kish. 
The news about him spread through the whole country of Syria, so that people brought to him all those who were sick, suffering from all kinds of diseases and disorders: people with demons, and epileptics, and paralytics — and Jesus healed them all. 
Micah appointed him as his priest, and he lived in Micah's home. 
The LORD did this because David had done what pleased him and had never disobeyed any of his commands, except in the case of Uriah the Hittite. 
Jesus left that place and went back to his home town, followed by his disciples. 
The LORD said to Moses and Aaron, 
Was it you, Job, who made horses so strong : and gave them their flowing manes? 
If you have to choose between a good reputation and great wealth, choose a good reputation. 
Then those who are in Judea must run away to the hills; those who are in the city must leave, and those who are out in the country must not go into the city.  
Sing a new song to the LORD; : sing his praise, all the world! : Praise him, you that sail the sea; : praise him, all creatures of the sea! : Sing, distant lands and all who live there! 
Nobody can deny these things. So then, you must calm down and not do anything reckless. 
Do you believe that there is only one God? Good! The demons also believe — and tremble with fear. 
I heard a loud voice speaking from the throne: “Now God's home is with human beings! He will live with them, and they shall be his people. God himself will be with them, and he will be their God. 
Your money can be gone in a flash, as if it had grown wings and flown away like an eagle. 
There was a man whose father was an Egyptian and whose mother was an Israelite named Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri from the tribe of Dan. There in the camp this man quarrelled with an Israelite. During the quarrel he cursed God, so they took him to Moses, 
“What do you want with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Are you here to destroy us? I know who you are — you are God's holy messenger!” 
The eleven disciples went to the hill in Galilee where Jesus had told them to go. 
So the Philistines were defeated, and the LORD prevented them from invading Israel's territory as long as Samuel lived. 
The people who heard him asked, “Who, then, can be saved?” 
rams' skin dyed red; fine leather; acacia wood; 
but I will make a covenant with you. Go into the boat with your wife, your sons, and their wives. 
Many will stumble; they will fall and be crushed. They will be caught in a trap.” 
And so, in accordance with what the LORD had said against Baasha through the prophet Jehu, Zimri killed all the family of Baasha. 
Like wood that is split and chopped into bits, : so their bones are scattered at the edge of the grave. 
because their minds are dull, :   and they have stopped up their ears :   and have closed their eyes. :   Otherwise, their eyes would see, :   their ears would hear, :   their minds would understand, :   and they would turn to me, says God, :   and I would heal them.’ 
and said, “Go and wash your face in the Pool of Siloam.” (This name means “Sent”.) So the man went, washed his face, and came back seeing. 
Don't visit stupid people or spend a lot of time talking with them. Avoid them; then they can't contaminate you, and you can live in peace without being troubled or worn down by their foolishness. 
You have never been here before, so they will show you the way to go. But do not get near the Covenant Box; stay about a kilometre behind it.” 
The day of punishment is coming, and Israel will be ruined. People of Israel, this will surely happen! 
During the second year that Darius was emperor of Persia, on the first day of the sixth month, the LORD spoke through the prophet Haggai. The message was for the governor of Judah, Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, and for the High Priest, Joshua son of Jehozadak. 
But even the people of Judah did not obey the laws of the LORD their God; they imitated the customs adopted by the people of Israel. 
The whole nature of the universe was changed at your command so that your people would not be harmed. 
“When you lift your hands in prayer, I will not look at you. No matter how much you pray, I will not listen, for your hands are covered with blood. 
three east of the Jordan and three in the land of Canaan. 
He knows that I am faultless, : that I have kept myself from doing wrong. 
You did such evil in buying and selling that your places of worship were corrupted. So I set fire to the city and burnt it to the ground. All who look at you now see you reduced to ashes. 
On the Sabbath day offer two one-year-old male lambs without any defects, two kilogrammes of flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering, and the wine offering. 
say to the LORD, ‘None of the sacred tithe is left in my house; I have given it to the Levites, the foreigners, the orphans, and the widows, as you commanded me to do. I have not disobeyed or forgotten any of your commands concerning the tithe. 
If a person is too poor to afford sin, he can rest without a guilty conscience. 
They will no longer rely on the altars they made with their own hands, or trust in their own handiwork — symbols of the goddess Asherah and altars for burning incense. 
No matter where the Israelites live, they must never use the blood of birds or animals for food. 
Tobias went in and told his father, “I have found a fellow-Israelite to travel with me.” : “Call the man in,” Tobit replied. “I would like to know what family and tribe he belongs to, and whether he is a reliable travelling companion for you.” : So Tobias went out and called to Raphael, “My father would like to meet you.” When Raphael came in, Tobit greeted him first. : Then Raphael returned the greeting, “I hope all is well with you.” : But Tobit replied, “How can all be well with me? I'm blind and can't see a thing. It's like being dead and no longer able to see the light. I might as well be dead! I can hear people talking, but I can't see them.” : “Cheer up!” Raphael said to him. “God is going to cure you soon, so don't worry!” : Tobit then said, “My son Tobias wants to go to Media. Can you go with him and show him the way? I will pay you, of course.” : Raphael replied, “Certainly I can go with him. I have travelled there many times and I know all the roads in the mountains and on the plains.” 
So now, I, the LORD, say that you have disobeyed me: you have not given your fellow-Israelites their freedom. Very well, then, I will give you freedom: the freedom to die by war, disease, and starvation. I will make every nation in the world horrified at what I do to you. 
David sang this lament for Abner: : “Why did Abner have to die like a fool? 
They are to receive the first share of the corn, wine, olive oil, and wool. 
Jesus answered, “Moses gave you permission to divorce your wives because you are so hard to teach. But it was not like that at the time of creation.  
I want to see you more than just briefly in passing; I hope to spend quite a long time with you, if the Lord allows. 
You will die like a dog at the hand of godless foreigners. I, the Sovereign LORD, have given the command.” 
The people crossed the Jordan on the tenth day of the first month and made camp at Gilgal, east of Jericho. 
Moses left the king and prayed to the LORD. 
For the sake of this gospel I am an ambassador, though now I am in prison. Pray that I may be bold in speaking about the gospel as I should. 
Jesus left the city and went, as he usually did, to the Mount of Olives; and the disciples went with him. 
Jonathan, King David's uncle, was a skilful adviser and a scholar. He and Jehiel son of Hachmoni were in charge of the education of the king's sons. 
Who is this coming from the desert, : arm in arm with her lover? : Under the apple tree I woke you, : in the place where you were born. 
Don't spend all your energy on sex and all your money on women; they have destroyed kings. 
David said to God, “I have committed a terrible sin in doing this! Please forgive me. I have acted foolishly.” 
Then, when the shoulder of the ram is boiled, the priest shall take it and put it, together with one thick loaf of bread and one biscuit from the basket, into the hands of the Nazirite. 
Their father Ephraim mourned for them for many days, and his relatives came to comfort him. 
And I said to myself that they were using as a prostitute a woman worn out by adultery.  
Most beautiful of women, : is your lover different from everyone else? : What is there so wonderful about him : that we should give you our promise? 
although some wanted it done. Pretending to be fellow-believers, these men slipped into our group as spies, in order to find out about the freedom we have through our union with Christ Jesus. They wanted to make slaves of us, 
All the people of the town gathered in front of the house. 
Atroth Shophan, Jazer, Jogbehah, 
No, you can only suffer in the heat : when the south wind oppresses the land. 
The people who heard him were amazed at the way he taught, for he wasn't like the teachers of the Law; instead, he taught with authority. 
The king followed the instructions that the LORD had given to King David through Gad, the king's prophet, and through the prophet Nathan; he stationed Levites in the Temple, with harps and cymbals, 
And he kept begging Jesus not to send the evil spirits out of that region. 
But if we say, ‘From human beings… ’ ” (They were afraid of the people, because everyone was convinced that John had been a prophet.) 
You must honour me by what you do. If you will not listen to what I say, then I will bring a curse on you. I will put a curse on the things you receive for your support. In fact, I have already put a curse on them, because you do not take my command seriously. 
Sew five of them together in one set, and do the same with the other five. 
but they held him back, saying, “Stay with us; the day is almost over and it is getting dark.” So he went in to stay with them. 
But if you go astray, she will abandon you and let you go to your own ruin. 
He was angry with these two officials 
The people of Jerusalem cried out, : “How badly we are hurt! : Our wounds will not heal. : And we thought this was something we could endure! 
There before the people they could not catch him out in anything, so they kept quiet, amazed at his answer. 
When Ehud had given him the gifts, he told the men who had carried them to go back home. 
Keep on praying for us. We are sure we have a clear conscience, because we want to do the right thing at all times. 
Then the LORD God said, “It is not good for the man to live alone. I will make a suitable companion to help him.” 
Some of the disciples were talking about the Temple, how beautiful it looked with its fine stones and the gifts offered to God. Jesus said, 
Pray to God that these things will not happen in the winter!  
There was a believer in Damascus named Ananias. He had a vision, in which the Lord said to him, “Ananias!” : “Here I am, Lord,” he answered. 
The letter that he took read: “This letter will introduce my officer Naaman. I want you to cure him of his disease.” 
“Listen to my groans; there is no one to comfort me. : My enemies are glad that you brought disaster on me. : Bring the day you promised; make my enemies suffer as I do. 
The LORD hates everyone who is arrogant; he will never let them escape punishment. 
“Make this announcement among the nations: : ‘Prepare for war; : call your warriors; : gather all your soldiers and march! 
The people of Moab wear themselves out going to their mountain shrines and to their temples to pray, but it will do them no good. 
I paid close attention and heard you fail; : you have not disproved what Job has said. 
On each of the seven days of the festival he is to sacrifice to the LORD seven bulls and seven rams without any defects and burn them whole. He is also to sacrifice a male goat each day as a sin offering. 
Then Pilate set Barabbas free for them; and after he had Jesus whipped, he handed him over to be crucified. 
The Philistines sent a group of soldiers to defend the pass of Michmash.
“I stretch out my hands, but no one will help me. : The LORD has called enemies against me from every side; : They treat me like some filthy thing. 
The men in charge of the work were thoroughly honest, so there was no need to require them to account for the funds. 
He saw a fig tree by the side of the road and went to it, but found nothing on it except leaves. So he said to the tree, “You will never again bear fruit!” At once the fig tree dried up. 
So he said to his disciples, “The harvest is large, but there are few workers to gather it in.  
Then he appeared to James, and afterwards to all the apostles. 
They will tell about all your goodness : and sing about your kindness. 
“If the LORD had not been on our side : when our enemies attacked us, 
But he left in Judah some of the poorest people, who owned no property, and he put them to work in the vineyards and fields. 
Evil spirits came out from many people with a loud cry, and many paralysed and lame people were healed. 
(Cush had a son named Nimrod, who became the world's first great conqueror.) 
“The officers will also say to the men, ‘Is there any man here who has lost his nerve and is afraid? If so, he is to go home. Otherwise, he will destroy the morale of the others.’ 
Haven't you talked with people who travel? : Don't you know the reports they bring back? 
I will make winds blow against Elam from all directions, and I will scatter her people everywhere, until there is no country where her refugees have not gone. 
If you have a slave, treat him as you would want to be treated; you bought him with your hard-earned money. 
Use your wealth as the Most High has commanded; this will do you more good than keeping your money for yourself. 
I appeal to you, my friends, as strangers and refugees in this world! Do not give in to bodily passions, which are always at war against the soul. 
When Wisdom came to me, all good things came with her. She brought me untold riches. 
So when God sent me from my father's house into foreign lands, I said to her, ‘You can show how loyal you are to me by telling everyone that I am your brother.’ ” 
I will not rest or sleep, 
Ants: they are weak, but they store up their food in the summer. 
It was supported by four posts in four bronze bases. Their hooks, the covering of their tops, and their rods were made of silver. 
So King David, the leaders of Israel, and the military commanders went to the house of Obed Edom to fetch the Covenant Box, and they had a great celebration. 
So watch what you do! :   “If your brother sins, rebuke him, and if he repents, forgive him.  
No one will be left in the city of Gaza. Ashkelon will be deserted. The people of Ashdod will be driven out in half a day, and the people of Ekron will be driven from their city. 
But if the people of that city will not surrender, but choose to fight, surround it with your army. 
After that, some of the elders stood up and said to the people who had assembled, 
The LORD gave me this answer: “Write down clearly on clay tablets what I reveal to you, so that it can be read at a glance. 
Jeroham's descendants included Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah, 
I sent them into the world, just as you sent me into the world.  
During the night he woke up suddenly, turned over, and was surprised to find a woman lying at his feet. 
“He told us that the animals had been found,” Saul answered — but he did not tell his uncle what Samuel had said about his becoming king. 
He led them safely, and they were not afraid; : but the sea came rolling over their enemies. 
You will do everything you have promised; :   LORD, your love is eternal. : Complete the work that you have begun.
The Sovereign LORD says, “I will treat you as you deserve, because you ignored your promises and broke the covenant. 
They made the shirts for Aaron and his sons, 
Jahaziel said, “Your Majesty and all you people of Judah and Jerusalem, the LORD says that you must not be discouraged or be afraid to face this large army. The battle depends on God, not on you. 
the Israelites out on the battlefield were to turn round. By this time the Benjaminites had already killed the thirty Israelites. They told themselves, “Yes, we've beaten them just as we did before.” 
Consider the experience of Abraham; as the scripture says, “He believed God, and because of his faith God accepted him as righteous.” 
The LORD says, : “I will bring my people back to me. : I will love them with all my heart; : no longer am I angry with them. 
And the report about Jesus spread everywhere in that region. 
At this same time the Philistines were raiding the towns in the western foothills and in southern Judah. They captured the cities of Beth Shemesh, Aijalon, and Gederoth, and the cities of Soco, Timnah, and Gimzo with their villages, and settled there permanently. 
Search in the LORD's book of living creatures and read what it says. Not one of these creatures will be missing, and not one will be without its mate. The LORD has commanded it to be so; he himself will bring them together. 
The Festival of Shelters begins on the fifteenth day of the seventh month and continues for seven days. 
“Also, the Kingdom of heaven is like this. A man is looking for fine pearls,  
When people say, “Everything is quiet and safe,” then suddenly destruction will hit them! It will come as suddenly as the pains that come upon a woman in labour, and people will not escape. 
I went to the Temple and asked for her, and I will look for her as long as I live. 
and you will have authority to drive out demons.” 
Perhaps the LORD will notice my misery and give me some blessings to take the place of his curse.” 
Because of all that has happened, we, the people of Israel, hereby make a solemn written agreement, and our leaders, our Levites, and our priests put their seals to it.
Then he sent them out to preach the Kingdom of God and to heal the sick, 
But when the time came for Merab to be given to David, she was given instead to a man named Adriel from Meholah. 
David got up from the floor, had a bath, combed his hair, and changed his clothes. Then he went and worshipped in the house of the LORD. When he returned to the palace, he asked for food and ate it as soon as it was served. 
You worship the fertility gods by having sex under those sacred trees of yours. You offer your children as sacrifices in the rocky caves near the bed of a stream. 
You must not make any covenant with the people who live in this land. You must tear down their altars.’ But you have not done what I told you. You have done just the opposite! 
A bull, a ram, a sheep, or a goat may be presented to the LORD as a burnt offering or as a sacrifice in fulfilment of a vow or as a freewill offering or as an offering at your regular religious festivals; the smell of these food offerings is pleasing to the LORD. 
As far as the east is from the west, : so far does he remove our sins from us. 
He was Israel's leader for 23 years. Then he died and was buried at Shamir. 
The LORD my God said to me, “Act the part of the shepherd of a flock of sheep that are going to be butchered. 
Take the impurities out of silver and the artist can produce a thing of beauty. 
Look! He is talking in public, and they say nothing against him! Can it be that they really know that he is the Messiah? 
And then the people of Israel prayed this prayer: : “You, LORD, you alone are LORD; : you made the heavens and the stars of the sky. : You made land and sea and everything in them; : you gave life to all. : The heavenly powers bow down and worship you. 
Last of all, the woman died. 
The LORD holds a cup in his hand, : filled with the strong wine of his anger. : He pours it out, and all the wicked drink it; : they drink it down to the last drop. 
Haven't you heard that when Jezebel was killing the prophets of the LORD I hid a hundred of them in caves, in two groups of fifty, and supplied them with food and water? 
He had healed many people, and all those who were ill kept pushing their way to him in order to touch him. 
Israel, you have forgotten the God who rescues you and who protects you like a mighty rock. Instead, you plant sacred gardens in order to worship a foreign god. 
And when they came together, he gave them this order: “Do not leave Jerusalem, but wait for the gift I told you about, the gift my Father promised.  
Then Saul went over to Samuel, who was near the gate, and asked, “Tell me, where does the seer live?” 
Her wisest ladies answered her, : and she told herself over and over, 
I will always obey your law, : for ever and ever. 
The scripture says, “Be holy because I am holy.” 
where supplies were stored in huge amounts. : In Jerusalem he stationed outstanding officers, 
“The more altars the people of Israel build for removing sin, the more places they have for sinning! 
On the seventh day the priest shall again examine the sore, and if it has not spread and does not seem to be deeper than the surrounding skin, he shall pronounce him ritually clean. The person shall wash his clothes, and he will be clean. 
If you touch tar, it will stick to you, and if you keep company with arrogant people, you will come to be just like them. 
In the second year of the reign of Pekah son of Remaliah as king of Israel, Jotham son of Uzziah became king of Judah 
Don't you understand? Anything that goes into a person's mouth goes into his stomach and then on out of his body.  
Everywhere in the country people snatch and eat any bit of food they can find, but their hunger is never satisfied. They even eat their own children! 
“Suppose someone is found murdered in a field in the land that the LORD your God is going to give you, and you do not know who killed him. 
So his wife and all his friends suggested, “Why don't you have a gallows built, 22 metres tall? Tomorrow morning you can ask the king to have Mordecai hanged on it, and then you can go to the banquet happy.” : Haman thought this was a good idea, so he had the gallows built.
I said, “I will be careful what I do : and will not let my tongue make me sin; : I will not say anything : while evil people are near.” 
I am always aware of the LORD's presence; : he is near, and nothing can shake me. 
It stayed there three months, and the LORD blessed Obed Edom and his family. 
But Phinehas stood up and punished the guilty, : and the plague was stopped. 
Fools say whatever comes to mind; wise people think before they speak. 
“Work six days a week, but do no work on the seventh day, so that your slaves and the foreigners who work for you and even your animals can rest. 
All over the country they started quarrelling among themselves. “King David saved us from our enemies,” they said to one another. “He rescued us from the Philistines, but now he has fled from Absalom and left the country. 
The city is in ruins, and its gates have been broken down. 
but I will let Solomon's son keep one tribe, so that I will always have a descendant of my servant David ruling in Jerusalem, the city I have chosen as the place where I am worshipped. 
The Law brings down God's anger; but where there is no law, there is no disobeying of the law. 
When someone asks you for something, give it to him; when someone wants to borrow something, lend it to him. 
The Israelites carried out the orders given to them by the High Priest Joakim and the Council which met in Jerusalem. 
Happy are you if you are insulted because you are Christ's followers; this means that the glorious Spirit, the Spirit of God, is resting on you. 
Solomon also rebuilt the following cities: Upper Beth Horon and Lower Beth Horon (fortified cities with gates that could be barred), 
For this service you perform not only meets the needs of God's people, but also produces an outpouring of gratitude to God. 
The other Israelites must no longer approach the Tent and in this way bring on themselves the penalty of death. 
The Lord has someone strong and powerful ready to attack them, someone who will come like a hailstorm, like a torrent of rain, like a rushing, overpowering flood, and will overwhelm the land. 
My people and I have been sold for slaughter. If it were nothing more serious than being sold into slavery, I would have kept quiet and not bothered you about it; but we are about to be destroyed — exterminated!” 
Why is the LORD taking us into that land? We will be killed in battle, and our wives and children will be captured. Wouldn't it be better to go back to Egypt?” 
In many different ways John preached the Good News to the people and urged them to change their ways. 
Everyone who lives ought to be wise; it is as good as receiving an inheritance 
“Woman, why are you crying?” Jesus asked her. “Who is it that you are looking for?” : She thought he was the gardener, so she said to him, “If you took him away, sir, tell me where you have put him, and I will go and get him.” 
It read: : “Geshem tells me that a rumour is going round among the neighbouring peoples that you and the Jewish people intend to revolt and that this is why you are rebuilding the wall. He also says you plan to make yourself king and that you have arranged for some prophets to proclaim in Jerusalem that you are the king of Judah. 
When the king of Israel read the letter, he tore his clothes in dismay and exclaimed, “How can the king of Syria expect me to cure this man? Does he think that I am God, with the power of life and death? It's plain that he is trying to start a quarrel with me!” 
“Do everything that I have commanded you; do not add anything to it or take anything from it.
A search was made all over Israel for a beautiful young woman, and in Shunem they found such a woman named Abishag, and brought her to the king. 
For each bull and each ram that is sacrificed, there is to be an offering of 17.5 litres of corn and three litres of olive oil. 
But those who lose their nerve are doomed — all those sinners who try to have it both ways! 
You know the way that leads to the place where I am going.” 
Gather together in fear, you nations! Listen, you distant parts of the earth. Get ready to fight, but be afraid! Yes, get ready, but be afraid! 
I will make a covenant with them that guarantees their security for ever. I will establish them and increase their population, and put my Temple in their land, where it will stay for ever. 
There was a wealthy and influential man named Kish, from the tribe of Benjamin; he was the son of Abiel and grandson of Zeror, and belonged to the family of Becorath, a part of the clan of Aphiah. 
After Joseph had buried his father, he returned to Egypt with his brothers and all who had gone with him for the funeral. 
About three months later someone said to Judah, “Your daughter-in-law Tamar has been acting like a whore, and now she is pregnant.” : Judah ordered, “Take her out and burn her to death.” 
He made the sun move backward and lengthened the king's life. 
When the time of mourning was over, David sent for her to come to the palace; she became his wife and bore him a son. But the LORD was not pleased with what David had done.
So they worshipped the LORD, but they also worshipped their own gods according to the customs of the countries from which they had come. 
“Later on he will invade Egypt again, but this time things will turn out differently. 
Almighty LORD, God of Israel! I have the courage to pray this prayer to you, because you have revealed all this to me, your servant, and have told me that you will make my descendants kings. 
But the disciples did not know what this meant. It had been hidden from them so that they could not understand it, and they were afraid to ask him about the matter. 
When God had finished speaking to Moses on Mount Sinai, he gave him the two stone tablets on which God himself had written the commandments.
and the room which faced north was for the priests who served at the altar. All the priests are descended from Zadok; they are the only members of the tribe of Levi who are permitted to go into the LORD's presence to serve him. 
The owner sent another slave, and they killed him; and they treated many others the same way, beating some and killing others.  
“Israel, the end has come. You will feel my anger, because I am judging you for what you have done. I will pay you back for all your disgusting conduct. 
But the earth helped the woman; it opened its mouth and swallowed the water that had come from the dragon's mouth. 
You will feel as if you were out on the ocean, sea-sick, swinging high up in the rigging of a tossing ship. 
Keep me from wanting to do wrong : and from joining evil people in their wickedness. : May I never take part in their feasts. 
Seventy years is all we have — : eighty years, if we are strong; : yet all they bring us is trouble and sorrow; : life is soon over, and we are gone. 
One night, when everyone was asleep, an enemy came and sowed weeds among the wheat and went away.  
They brought them out of the tent, took them to Joshua and all the Israelites, and laid them down in the presence of the LORD. 
Let no one deceive you, my children! Whoever does what is right is righteous, just as Christ is righteous. 
Then the sea gave up its dead. Death and the world of the dead also gave up the dead they held. And all were judged according to what they had done. 
A fig tree, my brothers and sisters, cannot bear olives; a grapevine cannot bear figs, nor can a salty spring produce sweet water. 
So I will send fire upon Judah and burn down the fortresses of Jerusalem.” 
Whoever is evil must go on doing evil, and whoever is filthy must go on being filthy; whoever is good must go on doing good, and whoever is holy must go on being holy.” 
They prepared a dinner for him there, which Martha helped to serve; Lazarus was one of those who were sitting at the table with Jesus. 
This made the sailors so afraid of the LORD that they offered a sacrifice and promised to serve him. 
David said to Achish, “If you are my friend, let me have a small town to live in. There is no need, sir, for me to live with you in the capital city.” 
Then God commanded, “Let the earth produce all kinds of animal life: domestic and wild, large and small” — and it was done. 
This is only the second year of famine in the land; there will be five more years in which there will be neither ploughing nor reaping. 
All the people of Israel will mourn for him and bury him. He will be the only member of Jeroboam's family who will be properly buried, because he is the only one with whom the LORD, the God of Israel, is pleased. 
Zion, the mountain of God, is high and beautiful; : the city of the great king brings joy to all the world. 
and when Isaac was eight days old, Abraham circumcised him, as God had commanded. 
Now at last, in the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah, the Passover was celebrated in Jerusalem. 
But Jesus turned round, looked at his disciples, and rebuked Peter. “Get away from me, Satan,” he said. “Your thoughts don't come from God but from human nature!” 
Eli was now very old. He kept hearing about everything his sons were doing to the Israelites and that they were even sleeping with the women who worked at the entrance to the Tent of the LORD's presence. 
Praise the LORD, the God of Israel! : He alone does these wonderful things. 
Jesus found a donkey and rode on it, just as the scripture says, 
Listen to me, all you great leaders! All you leaders of the assemblies, hear what I have to say! 
And yet the LORD is waiting to be merciful to you. He is ready to take pity on you because he always does what is right. Happy are those who put their trust in the LORD. 
“No,” Gehazi answered. “But my master sent me to tell you that just now two members of the group of prophets in the hill country of Ephraim arrived, and he would like you to give them 3,000 pieces of silver and two changes of fine clothes.” 
Praise him with drums and dancing. : Praise him with harps and flutes. 
At night they sleep with nothing to cover them, : nothing to keep them from the cold. 
“What do you want me to do for you?” Jesus asked him. : “Teacher,” the blind man answered, “I want to see again.” 
Let your constant love comfort me, : as you have promised me, your servant. 
the carpenters and the builders to buy the stones and the timber used to repair the buildings that the kings of Judah had allowed to decay. 
“Father,” he said, “if you will, take this cup of suffering away from me. Not my will, however, but your will be done.”  
It was not only his coming that cheered us, but also his report of how you encouraged him. He told us how much you want to see me, how sorry you are, how ready you are to defend me; and so I am even happier now. 
Solomon's son Rehoboam was 41 years old when he became king of Judah, and he ruled for seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD had chosen from all the territory of Israel as the place where he was to be worshipped. Rehoboam's mother was Naamah from Ammon. 
Tell them also to take wagons with them from Egypt for their wives and small children and to bring their father with them. 
The king also ordered his workers to make two winged creatures out of metal, cover them with gold, and place them in the Most Holy Place, 
Noah was 600 years old when the flood came on the earth. 
Then he built an altar to the LORD and offered burnt offerings and fellowship offerings. The LORD answered his prayer, and the epidemic in Israel was stopped.
Many witnesses told lies against Jesus, but their stories did not agree. 
Don't abandon your helpless people to their cruel enemies; : don't forget your persecuted people! 
Once again you will see a king ruling in splendour over a land that stretches in all directions. 
and there remove Aaron's priestly robes and put them on Eleazar. Aaron is going to die there.” 
because now we really live if you stand firm in your life in union with the Lord. 
“At that time I instructed them, ‘Listen to the disputes that come up among your people. Judge every dispute fairly, whether it concerns only your own people or involves foreigners who live among you. 
and his eldest son, Abdon. His other sons were Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab, 
The mountains quaked before the LORD of Sinai, : before the LORD, the God of Israel. 
Jehoram became king at the age of 32, and he ruled in Jerusalem for eight years. 
Meanwhile Joab continued his campaign against Rabbah, the capital city of Ammon, and was about to capture it. 
So I am ready to give up; : I am in deep despair. 
Love one another warmly as Christian brothers and sisters, and be eager to show respect for one another. 
But I have a witness on my behalf which is even greater than the witness that John gave: what I do, that is, the deeds my Father gave me to do, these speak on my behalf and show that the Father has sent me.  
Then all the men of Shechem and Bethmillo got together and went to the sacred oak tree at Shechem, where they made Abimelech king. 
and you must put on the new self, which is created in God's likeness and reveals itself in the true life that is upright and holy. 
It has grown so dark that you cannot see, : and a flood overwhelms you. 
I have relied on you since the day I was born, : and you have always been my God. 
Suddenly two men were there talking with him. They were Moses and Elijah, 
Philip went and told Andrew, and the two of them went and told Jesus. 
“I am,” answered Jesus, “and you will all see the Son of Man seated on the right of the Almighty and coming with the clouds of heaven!” 
The Philistines fought a battle against the Israelites on Mount Gilboa. Many Israelites were killed there, and the rest of them, including King Saul and his sons, fled. 
Following the example of his ancestor King David, he did what was pleasing to the LORD. 
He cried out, “Jesus! Son of David! Take pity on me!” 
The second beast was allowed to breathe life into the image of the first beast, so that the image could talk and put to death all those who would not worship it. 
During his reign Sennacherib attacked the city and sent his chief official from Lachish. He challenged Jerusalem and boasted arrogantly. 
Naomi said to Ruth, “Yes, my daughter, it will be better for you to work with the women in Boaz' field. You might be molested if you went to someone else's field.” 
If a peace-loving person lives there, let your greeting of peace remain on him; if not, take back your greeting of peace.  
Saul's uncle saw him and the servant, and he asked them, “Where have you been?” : “Looking for the donkeys,” Saul answered. “When we couldn't find them, we went to see Samuel.” 
These are the descendants of King Jehoiachin, who was taken prisoner by the Babylonians. Jehoiachin had seven sons: Shealtiel, 
He supplied a large amount of iron for making nails and clamps for the wooden gates, and so much bronze that no one could weigh it. 
because Mount Zion lies lonely and deserted, : and wild jackals prowl through its ruins. 
But all this has happened in order to make what the prophets wrote in the Scriptures come true.” : Then all the disciples left him and ran away. 
Then the LORD said to Moses, “Bend down and pick it up by the tail.” So Moses bent down and caught it, and it became a stick again. 
If you forgive people's sins, they are forgiven; if you do not forgive them, they are not forgiven.” 
All others who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them.  
Wine can put new life into you if you drink it in moderation. What would life be like without it? Wine was created to make us happy. 
City of Sidon, you are disgraced! The sea and the great ocean depths disown you and say, “I never had any children. I never brought up sons or daughters.” 
I dug ponds to irrigate them. 
When you fight for us, nations run away from the noise of battle. 
Jesus answered him, “Whoever loves me will obey my teaching. My Father will love him, and my Father and I will come to him and live with him.  
When the Lord saw her, his heart was filled with pity for her, and he said to her, “Don't cry.”  
A young man who obeys the law is intelligent. One who makes friends with good-for-nothings is a disgrace to his father. 
Your soldiers are like women, and your country stands defenceless before your enemies. Fire will destroy the bars across your gates. 
“Jerusalem, Jerusalem! You kill the prophets, you stone the messengers God has sent you! How many times have I wanted to put my arms round all your people, just as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, but you would not let me!  
So the five men left and went to the town of Laish. They saw how safely the people there were living, like the Sidonians. They were a peaceful, quiet people, with no disputes with anyone; they had all they needed. They lived far away from the Sidonians and had no dealings with any other people. 
At once the iron, clay, bronze, silver, and gold crumbled and became like the dust on a threshing place in summer. The wind carried it all away, leaving not a trace. But the stone grew to be a mountain that covered the whole earth. 
When someone rich makes a mistake, there are many people to cover up for him and explain away all the things he never should have said. But let someone poor make a mistake, and he gets nothing but criticism. Even if what he says makes good sense, nobody will listen. 
Stop judging by external standards, and judge by true standards.” 
Then, while all the people were listening, Baruch read from the scroll everything that I had said. He did this in the Temple, from the room of Gemariah son of Shaphan, the court secretary. His room was in the upper court near the entrance of the New Gate of the Temple. 
If they hide on the top of Mount Carmel, I will search for them and catch them. If they hide from me at the bottom of the sea, I will command the sea monster to bite them. 
Wisdom and righteousness are signs of the maturity that should come with old age. 
May the LORD show his constant love during the day, : so that I may have a song at night, : a prayer to the God of my life. 
But after David had taken the census, his conscience began to trouble him, and he said to the LORD, “I have committed a terrible sin in doing this! Please forgive me. I have acted foolishly.” 
That is why his parents said, “He is old enough; ask him!” 
He goes up to the heights, : taking many captives with him; : he receives gifts from rebellious people. : The LORD God will live there. 
The men with me saw the light, but did not hear the voice of the one who was speaking to me. 
I love those who love me; : whoever looks for me can find me. 
Elijah answered, “By the living LORD, whom I serve, I promise that I will present myself to the king today.” 
There was a garden in the place where Jesus had been put to death, and in it there was a new tomb where no one had ever been buried. 
My people, how can you be such stupid fools? : When will you ever learn? 
Make the Sabbath a holy day, so that it will be a sign of the covenant we made, and will remind you that I am the LORD your God. 
The rain poured down, the rivers overflowed, the wind blew hard against that house, and it fell. And what a terrible fall that was!” 
The LORD says, “My people are stupid; : they don't know me. : They are like foolish children; : they have no understanding. : They are experts at doing what is evil, : but failures at doing what is good.” 
At the king's command, Hilkiah and the others went to consult a woman named Huldah, a prophet who lived in the newer part of Jerusalem. (Her husband Shallum, the son of Tikvah and grandson of Harhas, was in charge of the temple robes.) They described to her what had happened, 
May God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peace. 
Now that you have known me,” he said to them, “you will know  my Father also, and from now on you do know him and you have seen him.” 
Remember how short my life is; : remember that you created all of us mortal! 
In the eighth year that Josiah was king, while he was still very young, he began to worship the God of his ancestor King David. Four years later he began to destroy the pagan places of worship, the symbols of the goddess Asherah, and all the other idols. 
You have cheapened yourself by turning to the gods of other nations. You will be disappointed by Egypt, just as you were by Assyria. 
War will sweep through their cities and break down the city gates. It will destroy my people because they do what they themselves think best. 
He put the table in the Tent, on the north side outside the curtain, 
and Judith and her slave left the city. The men watched her as she went down the mountain into the valley, until she was out of sight. 
“Don't be afraid,” David replied. “I will be kind to you for the sake of your father Jonathan. I will give you back all the land that belonged to your grandfather Saul, and you will always be welcome at my table.” 
At that very hour of the night the jailer took them and washed their wounds; and he and all his family were baptized at once. 
David died and was buried in David's City. 
The Israelites will know from then on that I am the LORD their God. 
be thankful in all circumstances. This is what God wants from you in your life in union with Christ Jesus. 
I decided to enjoy myself and find out what happiness is. But I found that this is useless, too. 
The religion of these people is worthless. : A tree is cut down in the forest; : it is carved by the tools of the woodcarver, 
Cypress trees will grow where now there are briars; : myrtle trees will come up in place of thorns. : This will be a sign that will last for ever, : a reminder of what I, the LORD, have done.”
The LORD created the heavens — : he is the one who is God! : He formed and made the earth — : he made it firm and lasting. : He did not make it a desolate waste, : but a place for people to live in. : It is he who says, “I am the LORD, : and there is no other god. 
All Ahab's family and descendants are to die; I will get rid of every male in his family, young and old alike. 
On the sixth day they gathered twice as much food, four litres for each person. All the leaders of the community came and told Moses about it, 
Feasting makes you happy and wine cheers you up, but you can't have either without money. 
Whoever kills an animal shall replace it, but whoever kills a human being shall be put to death. 
The messengers, who had been sent by the Pharisees, 
the Pharisees and the teachers of the Law started grumbling, “This man welcomes outcasts and even eats with them!” 
Your name can be preserved if you have children or if you establish a city, but finding Wisdom is a better way. : Owning livestock and orchards will make you famous, but it is better to have a wife you love. 
The men Moses had sent to explore the land brought back a false report which caused the people to complain against the LORD. And so the LORD struck them with a disease, and they died. 
And to the tribes of Reuben and Gad I assigned the territory from Gilead to the River Arnon. The middle of the river was their southern boundary, and their northern boundary was the River Jabbok, part of which formed the Ammonite border. 
Make sure that no man, woman, family, or tribe standing here today turns from the LORD our God to worship the gods of other nations. This would be like a root that grows to be a bitter and poisonous plant. 
O LORD, you are faithful to those who are faithful to you, : and completely good to those who are perfect. 
Then he picked up the knife to kill him. 
Find out whether the land is good or bad and whether the people live in open towns or in fortified cities. 
When we suffer, we should sit alone in silent patience; 
Whatever an unclean person touches is unclean, and anyone else who touches it remains unclean until evening.
At Sinai you heard the Lord rebuke you and declare his determination to punish his enemies. 
Moses said to the people, “While we were still at Mount Sinai, I told you, ‘The responsibility for leading you is too much for me. I can't do it alone. 
We do not worship gods made with human hands. Not one of our clans, tribes, towns, or cities has ever done that, even though our ancestors used to do so. 
Hezekiah said to the people, “Now that you are ritually clean, bring sacrifices as offerings of thanksgiving to the LORD.” They obeyed, and some of them also voluntarily brought animals to be sacrificed as burnt offerings. 
and his soldiers tore down the city walls. 
It was Jesus, a descendant of David, whom God made the Saviour of the people of Israel, as he had promised. 
Every soldier received plenty of rations and a large payment of gold and silver from the royal treasury. 
“But I said, ‘Don't be afraid of those people. 
Do not plough the ground to sow seeds of injustice; you may reap a bigger harvest than you expect. 
They took their places in the Temple according to the instructions in the Law of Moses, the man of God. The Levites gave the blood of the sacrifices to the priests, who sprinkled it on the altar. 
I have indeed heard the cry of my people, and I see how the Egyptians are oppressing them. 
And if you do good only to those who do good to you, why should you receive a blessing? Even sinners do that!  
“Come!” answered Jesus. So Peter got out of the boat and started walking on the water to Jesus. 
there were no plants on the earth and no seeds had sprouted, because he had not sent any rain, and there was no one to cultivate the land; 
Bring more wood! Fan the flames! Cook the meat! Boil away the broth! Burn up the bones! 
So David went to Hebron, taking with him his two wives: Ahinoam, who was from Jezreel, and Abigail, Nabal's widow, who was from Carmel. 
Yes, I consulted God for him, and it wasn't the first time. As for plotting against you, Your Majesty must not accuse me or anyone else in my family. I don't know anything about this matter!” 
The houses of Jerusalem, the houses of the kings of Judah, and indeed all the houses on whose roofs incense has been burnt to the stars and where wine has been poured out as an offering to other gods — they will all be as unclean as Topheth.” 
They had wandered far away from the truth and worshipped the most disgusting and horrible animals. They were deceived as easily as little children. 
Each of you should go on living according to the Lord's gift to you, and as you were when God called you. This is the rule I teach in all the churches. 
So John appeared in the desert, baptizing and preaching. “Turn away from your sins and be baptized,” he told the people, “and God will forgive your sins.” 
Jesus turned and rebuked them.  
The LORD spoke to me. 
There under the dome stood the creatures, each stretching out two wings towards the ones next to it and covering its body with the other two wings. 
My only hope is the world of the dead, : where I will lie down to sleep in the dark. 
when seven cows, fat and sleek, came up out of the river and began feeding on the grass. 
When Saul heard this, the Spirit of God took control of him, and he became furious. 
he made Emperor Shalmaneser respect me, and I was placed in charge of purchasing all the emperor's supplies. 
So then, listen to what I, the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, will do: I will give my people bitter plants to eat and poison to drink. 
He answered them, “Why did you have to look for me? Didn't you know that I had to be in my Father's house?”  
Meremoth, the son of Uriah and grandson of Hakkoz, built the next section, up to the far end of Eliashib's house. 
So now, I, the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, will bring on you people of Judah and of Jerusalem all the destruction that I promised. I will do this because you would not listen when I spoke to you, and you would not answer when I called you.” 
So the king said to Abishai, “Sheba will give us more trouble than Absalom. Take my men and go after him, or else he may occupy some fortified towns and escape from us.” 
“If anyone, man or woman, goes to the inner courtyard and sees the king without being summoned, that person must die. That is the law; everyone, from the king's advisers to the people in the provinces, knows that. There is only one way to get round this law: if the king holds out his gold sceptre to someone, then that person's life is spared. But it has been a month since the king sent for me.” 
Listen to the noise on the mountains — the sound of a great crowd of people, the sound of nations and kingdoms gathering. The LORD of Armies is preparing his troops for battle. 
The men of Shechem put men in ambush against Abimelech on the mountain tops, and they robbed everyone who passed their way. Abimelech was told about this. 
When they heard this, they stopped their criticism and praised God, saying, “Then God has given to the Gentiles also the opportunity to repent and live!” 
“I spoke to the prophets and gave them many visions, and through the prophets I gave my people warnings. 
Amon's officials plotted against him and assassinated him in the palace. 
The man looked up and said, “Yes, I can see people, but they look like trees walking about.” 
On the Sabbath he began to teach in the synagogue. Many people were there; and when they heard him, they were all amazed. “Where did he get all this?” they asked. “What wisdom is this that has been given him? How does he perform miracles? 
If you fear the Lord, you will know what is right, and you will be famous for your fairness. 
but you must not start a war with them, because I am not going to give you so much as a square metre of their land. I have given Edom to Esau's descendants. 
I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken. The time has come for me to act. I will not ignore your sins or show pity or be merciful. You will be punished for what you have done.” The Sovereign LORD has spoken. 
You calm the roar of the seas : and the noise of the waves; : you calm the uproar of the peoples. 
Smoke comes pouring out of his nose, : like smoke from weeds burning under a pot. 
If a ruler pays attention to false information, all his officials will be liars. 
Meanwhile, the official who had gone to get Micaiah said to him, “All the other prophets have prophesied success for the king, and you had better do the same.” 
Righteousness protects the innocent; wickedness is the downfall of sinners. 
The prophet tore the cloth from his face, and at once the king recognized him as one of the prophets. 
The time for the Passover Festival was near. 
Put on sackcloth and weep, : you priests who serve at the altar! : Go into the Temple and mourn all night! : There is no corn or wine to offer your God. 
Their food supply has already run out, and the water shortage has become serious, so they have decided to kill their livestock and eat foods that God's Law clearly forbids them to eat. 
He captured King Arphaxad in the mountains round Rages and killed him. After Arphaxad's death, 
But I, the LORD, have a covenant with day and night, and I have made the laws that control earth and sky. 
But I will not stop loving David : or fail to keep my promise to him. 
There were windows in the rooms of this gateway just as in the others. The total length of the gateway was 25 metres, and the width 12.5 metres. 
Bring his sons and put the shirts on them. 
The purpose of this order is to arouse the love that comes from a pure heart, a clear conscience, and a genuine faith. 
but the LORD was kind and merciful to them. He would not let them be destroyed, but helped them, because of his covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He has never forgotten his people. 
For it is better to suffer for doing good, if this should be God's will, than for doing evil. 
I will destroy the Assyrians in my land of Israel and trample upon them on my mountains. I will free my people from the Assyrian yoke and from the burdens they have had to bear. 
the cedars will be the beams of our house, : and the cypress trees the ceiling.
The king of Syria had ordered his 32 chariot commanders to attack no one else except the king of Israel. 
May the proud be ashamed for falsely accusing me; : as for me, I will meditate on your instructions. 
About the tribe of Gad he said: : “Praise God, who made their territory large. : Gad waits like a lion : To tear off an arm or a scalp. 
The LORD will make you lose your mind; he will strike you with blindness and confusion. 
What Your Majesty is asking for is so difficult that no one can do it for you except the gods, and they do not live among human beings.” 
The LORD answered the angel with comforting words, 
Then the king gave orders to arrest all the men who had accused Daniel, and they were thrown, together with their wives and their children, into the pit filled with lions. Before they even reached the bottom of the pit, the lions pounced on them and broke all their bones. 
Eli heard the noise and asked, “What is all this noise about?” The man hurried to Eli to tell him the news. 
One of them, Zedekiah son of Chenaanah, made iron horns and said to Ahab, “This is what the LORD says, ‘With these you will fight the Syrians and totally defeat them.’ ” 
beginning with Egypt. This is what he said about the army of King Neco of Egypt, which King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia defeated at Carchemish near the River Euphrates in the fourth year that Jehoiakim was king of Judah
Once there were seven brothers; the eldest got married and died without having children. 
I am a wall, : and my breasts are its towers. : My lover knows that with him : I find contentment and peace. 
Even if others do not accept me as an apostle, surely you do! Because of your life in union with the Lord you yourselves are proof of the fact that I am an apostle. 
In the twentieth year of the reign of Jotham son of Uzziah as king of Judah, Hoshea son of Elah plotted against King Pekah, assassinated him, and succeeded him as king. 
After he is sold, he still has the right to be bought back. One of his brothers 
and announce that the time has come :   when the Lord will save his people.” 
to tell Zedekiah that the LORD, the God of Israel, had said, “Zedekiah, I am going to defeat your army that is fighting against the king of Babylonia and his army. I will pile up your soldiers' weapons in the centre of the city. 
The message you heard from the very beginning is this: we must love one another. 
Say that this is what the Sovereign LORD is telling the king of Egypt: I am your enemy, you monster crocodile, lying in the river. You say that the Nile is yours and that you made it.  
For God does not change his mind about whom he chooses and blesses. 
Then all the survivors from the nations that have attacked Jerusalem will go there each year to worship the LORD Almighty as king, and to celebrate the Festival of Shelters. 
Their wives also must be of good character and must not gossip; they must be sober and honest in everything. 
Leah said, “God has given me my reward, because I gave my slave to my husband”; so she named her son Issachar.  
Whenever I hold back the rain or send locusts to eat up the crops or send an epidemic on my people, 
“No one lights a lamp and then hides it or puts it under a bowl;    instead, he puts it on the lampstand, so that people may see the light as they come in.  
This is the family line from Perez to David: Perez, Hezron, Ram, Amminadab, Nahshon, Salmon, Boaz, Obed, Jesse, David.
and turned and ran to them. 
And now, you rich people, listen to me! Weep and wail over the miseries that are coming upon you! 
All my bones can be seen. : My enemies look at me and stare. 
Ezrah had four sons: Jether, Mered, Epher, and Jalon. Mered married Bithiah, a daughter of the king of Egypt, and they had a daughter, Miriam, and two sons, Shammai and Ishbah. 
We must not complain, as some of them did — and they were destroyed by the Angel of Death. 
You work and worry your way through life, and what do you have to show for it? 
I tell them to stop their boasting.” 
Our neighbours see what you did to us, : and they mock us and laugh at us. 
So Jacob said to his family and to all who were with him, “Get rid of the foreign gods that you have; purify yourselves and put on clean clothes. 
Isaac sowed seed in that land, and that year he harvested a hundred times as much as he had sown, because the LORD blessed him. 
It is for you, mighty kings, that I write these words, so that you may know how to act wisely and avoid mistakes. 
Hold me, and I will be safe, : and I will always pay attention to your commands. 
The wild goats live in the high mountains, : and the rock-badgers hide in the cliffs. 
The LORD says, : “Small and weak as you are, Israel, : don't be afraid; I will help you. : I, the holy God of Israel, am the one who saves you. 
I will send you rain at the right time, so that the land will produce crops and the trees will bear fruit. 
Obey the LORD, be humble, and you will get riches, honour, and a long life. 
So Samson sang, : “With the jawbone of a donkey I killed a thousand men; : With the jawbone of a donkey I piled them up in piles.” 
For the others offered their gifts from what they had to spare of their riches; but she, poor as she is, gave all she had to live on.” 
But the Israelites walked through the sea on dry ground, with walls of water on both sides. 
So when I come to you, my brothers and sisters, what use will I be to you if I speak in strange tongues? Not a bit, unless I bring you some revelation from God or some knowledge or some inspired message, or some teaching. 
Each of the six branches had three decorative flowers shaped like almond blossoms with buds and petals. 
which he gave to us in such large measure! : In all his wisdom and insight 
She said to Elijah, “Man of God, why did you do this to me? Did you come here to remind God of my sins and so cause my son's death?” 
When did this take place? Was it before or after Abraham was circumcised? It was before, not after. 
Obey all my laws and commands. I am the LORD.”
Make carrying poles of acacia wood, cover them with bronze, 
Now King Herod heard about all this, because Jesus' reputation had spread everywhere. Some people were saying, “John the Baptist has come back to life! That is why he has this power to perform miracles.” 
Nothing will stand in your way if you walk wisely, and you will not stumble when you run. 
They said to him, “You are not even fifty years old — and you have seen Abraham?” 
The LORD is coming from his heavenly dwelling place to punish the people of the earth for their sins. The murders that were secretly committed on the earth will be revealed, and the ground will no longer hide those who have been killed.
But put to death any interpreters of dreams or prophets who tell you to rebel against the LORD, who rescued you from Egypt, where you were slaves. Such people are evil and are trying to lead you away from the life that the LORD has commanded you to live. They must be put to death, in order to rid yourselves of this evil. 
At once she fell down at his feet and died. The young men came in and saw that she was dead, so they carried her out and buried her beside her husband. 
These are the descendants of Ham, living in their different tribes and countries, each group speaking its own language. 
The danger of death was all round me; : the waves of destruction rolled over me. 
All the ground that you march over will be yours. Your territory will extend from the desert in the south to the Lebanon Mountains in the north, and from the River Euphrates in the east to the Mediterranean Sea in the west. 
Elkanah answered, “All right, do whatever you think best; stay at home until you have weaned him. And may the LORD make your promise come true.” So Hannah stayed at home and nursed her child. 
When I lie down to sleep, the hours drag; : I toss all night and long for dawn. 
God did what he had purposed, and made known to us the secret plan he had already decided to complete by means of Christ. 
Moses, Aaron, and his sons washed their hands and their feet there 
He did not forget us when we were defeated; : his love is eternal; 
He has left my flesh open and raw, and has broken my bones. 
Then men from the tribes of Naphtali, Asher, and both parts of Manasseh were called out, and they pursued the Midianites. 
If you obey my commands, you will remain in my love, just as I have obeyed my Father's commands and remain in his love. 
John spoke up, “Master, we saw a man driving out demons in your name, and we told him to stop, because he doesn't belong to our group.” 
This is the report that they sent to the emperor
At once the men who were going to question Paul drew back from him; and the commander was frightened when he realized that Paul was a Roman citizen and that he had put him in chains. 
In the third year of his reign he sent out the following officials to teach in the cities of Judah: Benhail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel, and Micaiah. 
When Jotham heard about this, he went and stood on top of Mount Gerizim and shouted out to them, “Listen to me, you men of Shechem, and God may listen to you! 
Then she will come to you with no delay, reveal her secrets to you, and make you happy. 
I can make the sky turn dark, : as if it were in mourning for the dead.” 
The man shall put his hand on its head, and it will be accepted as a sacrifice to take away his sins. 
Be like a father to orphans, and provide widows with the help their husbands can no longer give them. Then you will be like a child of the Most High, and he will love you more than your own mother does. 
Instead, when you are invited, go and sit in the lowest place, so that your host will come to you and say, ‘Come on up, my friend, to a better place.’ This will bring you honour in the presence of all the other guests.  
When Jacob and his family went to Egypt and the Egyptians oppressed them, your ancestors cried to the LORD for help, and he sent Moses and Aaron, who brought them out of Egypt and settled them in this land. 
The next day he went back and saw two Hebrew men fighting. He said to the one who was in the wrong, “Why are you beating up a fellow-Hebrew?” 
When I lie down, I go to sleep in peace; : you alone, O LORD, keep me perfectly safe.
and can command them in battle, so that your community will not be like sheep without a shepherd.” 
Worrying about money will make you lose weight and lose sleep. 
After the man cuts it up, the officiating priest shall put on the fire all the parts, including the head and the fat. 
They are the spirits of demons that perform miracles. These three spirits go out to all the kings of the world, to bring them together for the battle on the great Day of Almighty God. 
I will punish you by sending a terrible disease on all your animals — your horses, donkeys, camels, cattle, sheep, and goats. 
She'll spread her legs anywhere for any man who wants her, just as a thirsty traveller will drink whatever water is available. 
“But anyone who hears these words of mine and does not obey them is like a foolish man who built his house on sand.  
They were written also for us who are to be accepted as righteous, who believe in him who raised Jesus our Lord from death. 
When the Philistines asked who had done this, they learnt that Samson had done it because his father-in-law, a man from Timnah, had given Samson's wife to a friend of Samson's. So the Philistines went and burnt the woman to death and burnt down her father's house. 
At the far end of the open space on the west side of the Temple there was a building 45 metres long and 35 metres wide; its walls were 2.5 metres thick all round. 
The people cry out, : “The summer is gone, the harvest is over, : but we have not been saved.” 
His parents were astonished when they saw him, and his mother said to him, “My son, why have you done this to us? Your father and I have been terribly worried trying to find you.” 
He warned them against unrighteousness : and taught each person how to treat others. 
Helkath, and Rehob, with their pasture lands. 
Then some of the Pharisees in the crowd spoke to Jesus. “Teacher,” they said, “command your disciples to be quiet!” 
Levi had three sons: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari; they were the ancestors of the clans that bear their names. Levi lived 137 years. 
because they had no faith in him : and did not believe that he would save them. 
One of them may encourage you to worship the gods of the people who live near you or the gods of those who live far away. 
They went first into the southern part of the land and came to Hebron, where the clans of Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the descendants of a race of giants called the Anakim, lived. (Hebron was founded seven years before Zoan in Egypt.) 
Then the heavenly court will sit in judgement, take away his power, and destroy him completely. 
At the close of the meeting, Nebuchadnezzar gave the following command to Holofernes, who was the general in command of his armies and second in command to the king
Christ, however, offered one sacrifice for sins, an offering that is effective for ever, and then he sat down at the right-hand side of God. 
The LORD says concerning Josiah's son Joahaz, who succeeded his father as king of Judah, “He has gone away from here, never to return. 
So they entered the tomb, where they saw a young man sitting on the right, wearing a white robe — and they were alarmed. 
It stayed there three months, and the LORD blessed Obed Edom's family and everything that belonged to him.
By the 27th day of the second month the earth was completely dry. 
I will increase the number of descendants of my servant David and the number of priests from the tribe of Levi, so that it will be as impossible to count them as it is to count the stars in the sky or the grains of sand on the seashore.” 
But because I had the support of Ahikam son of Shaphan, I was not handed over to the people and killed.
The grief caused when a close friendship turns sour is as bad as death. 
Peter answered, “I will never say that, even if I have to die with you!” : And all the other disciples said the same thing. 
“Tell the people to move away from the tents of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram.” 
As the Box was being brought into the city, Michal, Saul's daughter, looked out of the window and saw King David dancing and leaping for joy, and she was disgusted with him.
No one's greatness can save him from death; : he will still die like the animals. 
A large number of other people and many sheep, goats, and cattle also went with them. 
stop punishing me, and don't crush me with terror. 
As they travelled down the road, they came to a place where there was some water, and the official said, “Here is some water. What is to keep me from being baptized?” 
What I saw was the Temple, and there was a wall round it. The man took his measuring rod, which was three metres long, and measured the wall. It was three metres high and three metres thick. 
LORD, what are mortals, that you notice them; : mere mortals, that you pay attention to them? 
I would tell God everything I have done, : and hold my head high in his presence. 
So all the people went home and ate and drank joyfully and shared what they had with others, because they understood what had been read to them. 
Saul was afraid of David because the LORD was with David but had abandoned him. 
And now I am coming to you; I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world. Holy Father! Keep them safe by the power of your name, the name you gave me,  so that they may be one just as you and I are one.  
I bought the field from Hanamel and weighed out the money to him; the price came to seventeen pieces of silver. 
When a fool is annoyed, he quickly lets it be known. Sensible people will ignore an insult. 
“On that day of slaughter,” says the LORD, “I will punish the officials, the king's sons, and all who practise foreign customs. 
All their wealth will be destroyed : in the flood of God's anger. 
My child, don't prevent the poor from making a living, or keep them waiting in their need. 
Then Jesus was taken to the High Priest's house, where all the chief priests, the elders, and the teachers of the Law were gathering. 
My people cry out to me, : ‘Even though our sins accuse us, : help us, LORD, as you have promised. : We have turned away from you many times; : we have sinned against you. 
In the two courtyards of the Temple he built altars for the worship of the stars. 
Some people will be your friend as long as things are going well, but they will turn against you when trouble comes. 
But the fig tree answered, ‘In order to govern you, I would have to stop producing my good sweet fruit.’ 
I concluded that God is testing us, to show us that we are no better than animals. 
‘No,’ he answered, ‘because as you gather the weeds you might pull up some of the wheat along with them.  
Bad luck can sometimes lead to success, and a stroke of good luck can sometimes lead to loss. 
He protects everyone who loves him, : but he will destroy the wicked. 
All of us were like sheep that were lost, : each of us going his own way. : But the LORD made the punishment fall on him, : the punishment all of us deserved. 
would you wait until they had grown up? Would this keep you from marrying someone else? No, my daughters, you know that's impossible. The LORD has turned against me, and I feel very sorry for you.” 
The Lord gave the command, : and many women carried the news
I have complete confidence, O God! : I will sing and praise you! : Wake up, my soul! 
They encourage each other in their evil plots; : they plan where to place their traps. : “No one can see them,” they say. 
Those enemies could at least be thankful that the people they had wronged were not taking vengeance on them now, and so they begged them to leave. 
The king said, “I swear by the LORD that I will never let you take your women and children! It is clear that you are plotting to revolt. 
Defend the rights of the poor and the orphans; : be fair to the needy and the helpless. 
Listen, you rulers of Israel! You are supposed to be concerned about justice, 
You really are your mother's daughter. She detested her husband and her children. You are like your sisters, who hated their husbands and their children. You and your sister cities had a Hittite mother and an Amorite father. 
Jesus was in Bethany at the house of Simon, a man who had suffered from a dreaded skin disease. 
You will hear the cries of the oppressed and the orphans; : you will judge in their favour, : so that mortal men may cause terror no more.
All right, teach me; tell me my faults. : I will be quiet and listen to you. 
May all who made them and who trust in them : become like the idols they have made. 
Bethzur, Soco, Adullam, 
The fertile land had become a desert; : its cities were in ruins : because of the LORD's fierce anger. 
For if you live according to your human nature, you are going to die; but if by the Spirit you put to death your sinful actions, you will live. 
When you go into a house, say, ‘Peace be with you.’  
When the young man heard this, he went away sad, because he was very rich. 
The locusts were not allowed to kill these people, but only to torture them for five months. The pain caused by the torture is like the pain caused by a scorpion's sting. 
The following were the commanders for each month: : First month: Jashobeam son of Zabdiel (he was a member of the clan of Perez, a part of the tribe of Judah) : Second month: Dodai, a descendant of Ahohi (Mikloth was his second in command) : Third month: Benaiah son of Jehoiada the priest; he was the leader of “The Thirty” (his son Amizzabad succeeded him as commander of this group) : Fourth month: Asahel, brother of Joab (his son Zebadiah succeeded him) : Fifth month: Shamhuth, a descendant of Izhar : Sixth month: Ira son of Ikkesh from Tekoa : Seventh month: Helez, an Ephraimite from Pelon : Eighth month: Sibbecai from Hushah (he was a member of the clan of Zerah, a part of the tribe of Judah) : Ninth month: Abiezer from Anathoth in the territory of the tribe of Benjamin : Tenth month: Maharai from Netophah (he was a member of the clan of Zerah) : Eleventh month: Benaiah from Pirathon in the territory of the tribe of Ephraim : Twelfth month: Heldai from Netophah (he was a descendant of Othniel) 
For he has fixed a day in which he will judge the whole world with justice by means of a man he has chosen. He has given proof of this to everyone by raising that man from death!” 
for the people of Israel. No fat of cattle, sheep, or goats shall be eaten. 
“When I am angry and furious with you and punish you, all the nations around you will be terrified. They will look at you with disgust and will mock you. 
This is the decision of the alert and watchful angels. So then, let all people everywhere know that the Supreme God has power over human kingdoms and that he can give them to anyone he chooses — even to those who are the least important.’ 
Joshua, also called Justus, sends greetings too. These three are the only Jewish believers who work with me for the Kingdom of God, and they have been a great help to me. 
Do yourself a favour and learn all you can; then remember what you learn and you will prosper. 
Whenever there was a large amount of money in the box, the royal secretary and the High Priest would come, melt down the silver, and weigh it.  
Joseph's servant searched carefully, beginning with the eldest and ending with the youngest, and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack. 
“If one of you is planning to build a tower, you sit down first and work out what it will cost, to see if you have enough money to finish the job.  
Azel had six sons: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. 
I was circumcised when I was a week old. I am an Israelite by birth, of the tribe of Benjamin, a pure-blooded Hebrew. As far as keeping the Jewish Law is concerned, I was a Pharisee, 
After leaving David, Joab sent messengers to get Abner, and they brought him back from the well of Sirah; but David knew nothing about it. 
“Tobias, I want you to know that I once left a large sum of money with Gabrias' son, Gabael, at Rages in Media. 
The LORD will protect Mount Zion, but the people of Moab will be trampled down, just as straw is trampled in manure. 
At the same time we captured all his towns — there was not one that we did not take. In all we captured sixty towns — the whole region of Argob, where King Og of Bashan ruled. 
After that they sat there and watched him. 
They take donkeys that belong to orphans, : and keep a widow's ox till she pays her debts. 
It was late that Sunday evening, and the disciples were gathered together behind locked doors, because they were afraid of the Jewish authorities. Then Jesus came and stood among them. “Peace be with you,” he said. 
Don't join forces with a crowd of sinners; remember that the Lord's punishment is sure to come. 
The man answered, “Tell me who he is, sir, so that I can believe in him!” 
King Zedekiah of Judah sent Pashhur son of Malchiah and the priest Zephaniah son of Maaseiah to me with this request
The Lord said to him, “Get ready and go to Straight Street, and at the house of Judas ask for a man from Tarsus named Saul. He is praying,  
Indeed, we are Jews by birth and not “Gentile sinners”, as they are called. 
Give to the poor and you will never be in need. If you close your eyes to the poor, many people will curse you. 
Then Balak said to Balaam, “You refuse to curse the people of Israel, but at least don't bless them!” 
All you that are righteous, : shout for joy for what the LORD has done; : praise him, all you that obey him. 
Don't just stand there! Hurry up!” The boy picked up the arrow and returned to his master, 
The wicked roar and growl like lions, : but God silences them and breaks their teeth. 
He said in a loud voice, “Honour God and praise his greatness! For the time has come for him to judge. Worship him who made heaven, earth, sea, and the springs of water!” 
Put it in writing, because it is not yet time for it to come true. But the time is coming quickly, and what I show you will come true. It may seem slow in coming, but wait for it; it will certainly take place, and it will not be delayed. 
Benabinadab, who was married to Solomon's daughter Taphath: the whole region of Dor 
They pulled it aboard and then fastened some ropes tight round the ship. They were afraid that they might run into the sandbanks off the coast of Libya, so they lowered the sail and let the ship be carried by the wind. 
David asked him, “Where have you come from?” : “I have escaped from the Israelite camp,” he answered. 
Rehoboam's acts from beginning to end and his family records are found in The History of Shemaiah the Prophet and The History of Iddo the Prophet. Rehoboam and Jeroboam were constantly at war with each other. 
I do not allow them to teach or to have authority over men; they must keep quiet. 
Jonadab said to him, “Pretend that you are ill and go to bed. When your father comes to see you, say to him, ‘Please ask my sister Tamar to come and feed me. I want her to prepare the food here where I can see her, and then serve it to me herself.’ ” 
Next, take all the fat which covers the internal organs, the best part of the liver, and the two kidneys with the fat on them and burn them on the altar as an offering to me. 
You can still see the evidence of their wickedness. The land there is barren and smoking. The plants bear fruit that never ripens, and a pillar of salt stands as a monument to one who did not believe. 
But the men would not listen to him. So the Levite took his concubine and put her outside with them. They raped her and abused her all night long and didn't stop until morning. 
A friend of mine who is on a journey has just come to my house, and I haven't got any food for him!’  
She sends knowledge and understanding like the rain, : and increases the honour of those who receive her. 
I will not let you see my face, because no one can see me and stay alive, 
He made the lampstand of pure gold. He made its base and its shaft of hammered gold; its decorative flowers, including buds and petals, formed one piece with it. 
These clans numbered 40,500 men. 
Year after year you patiently warned them. : You inspired your prophets to speak, : but your people were deaf, : so you let them be conquered by other nations. 
This happened three times, and then the thing was taken back up into heaven. 
This is what I have found out: the best thing anyone can do is to eat and drink and enjoy what he has worked for during the short life that God has given him; this is man's fate. 
So Sarah laughed to herself and said, “Now that I am old and worn out, can I still enjoy sex? And besides, my husband is old too.” 
Instead, they should each ask their friends and relatives, ‘What answer has the LORD given? What has the LORD said?’ 
So they wrapped sackcloth round their waists and ropes round their necks, went to Ahab and said, “Your servant Benhadad pleads with you for his life.” : Ahab answered, “Is he still alive? Good! He's like a brother to me!” 
But he sees that the resting place is good : And that the land is delightful. : So he bends his back to carry the load : And is forced to work as a slave. 
His anger lasts only a moment, : his goodness for a lifetime. : Tears may flow in the night, : but joy comes in the morning. 
“O Lord God of heaven, look how our boastful enemies have humiliated your people! Have pity on us and help us.” 
But because there is so much immorality, every man should have his own wife, and every woman should have her own husband. 
He said to me, ‘I will give you many children, so that your descendants will become many nations; I will give this land to your descendants as their possession for ever.’ ” 
So the master said to the servant, ‘Go out to the country roads and lanes and make people come in, so that my house will be full.  
Instead, we should all please our brothers and sisters for their own good, in order to build them up in the faith. 
But Ahab replied, “When you speak to me in the name of the LORD, tell the truth! How many times do I have to tell you that?” 
But I ask: is it true that they did not hear the message? Of course they did — for as the scripture says: : “The sound of their voice went out to all the world; : their words reached the ends of the earth.” 
But Joseph said to them, “Don't be afraid; I can't put myself in the place of God. 
“Mortal man, I am sending you to the people of Israel. They have rebelled and turned against me and are still rebels, just as their ancestors were. 
A quiet man living with a nagging wife is like an old man climbing up a sandy hill. 
Giving thanks is the sacrifice that honours me, : and I will surely save all who obey me.”
But the army officer wanted to save Paul, so he stopped them from doing this. Instead, he ordered those who could swim to jump overboard first and swim ashore; 
The king acts with authority, and no one can challenge what he does. 
and Saul ordered them to tell David: “All the king wants from you as payment for the bride is the foreskins of a hundred dead Philistines, as revenge on his enemies.” (This was how Saul planned to have David killed by the Philistines.) 
Bathsheba bowed low before the king, and he asked, “What do you want?” 
The total number of males one month old or older that were enrolled was 7,500. 
Do not love the world or anything that belongs to the world. If you love the world, you do not love the Father. 
Don't tell it to your friends or your enemies unless it would be sinful to keep it to yourself. 
and the priest shall take him outside the camp and examine him. If the disease is healed, 
If the Lord is willing, however, I will come to you soon, and then I will find out for myself the power which these proud people have, and not just what they say. 
Be on the alert and pray always that you will have the strength to go safely through all those things that will happen and to stand before the Son of Man.” 
But his bow remains steady, : And his arms are made strong : By the power of the Mighty God of Jacob, : By the Shepherd, the Protector of Israel. 
When Jesus heard this, he said to him, “There is still one more thing you need to do. Sell all you have and give the money to the poor, and you will have riches in heaven; then come and follow me.”  
It was you also who dried up the sea : and made a path through the water, : so that those you were saving could cross. 
“Do not make and worship gods of metal. 
Eleazar the priest, Joshua son of Nun, and the leaders of the families of the tribes of Israel assigned these parts of the land by drawing lots to consult the LORD at Shiloh, at the entrance of the Tent of the LORD's presence. In this way they finished dividing the land.
Are you going to refuse to follow him now? If you rebel against the LORD today, he will be angry with everyone in Israel tomorrow. 
So they sent the Covenant Box to Ekron, another Philistine city; but when it arrived there, the people cried out, “They have brought the Covenant Box of the God of Israel here, in order to kill us all!” 
The servant carried the boy back to his mother, who held him in her lap until noon, at which time he died. 
You yourselves admit, then, that you approve of what your ancestors did; they murdered the prophets, and you build their tombs.  
“Suppose a man is caught in a town having intercourse with a woman who is engaged to someone else. 
One night God appeared to him in a dream and said: “You are going to die, because you have taken this woman; she is already married.” 
Be glad that we belong to him; : let all who worship him rejoice. 
She acts as if the eggs were not hers, : and is unconcerned that her efforts were wasted. 
I wish I could be whipped for my thoughts, so that Wisdom could discipline my mind. I would not want to be spared when I am wrong; I would not want a single sin to be overlooked! 
and each time they moved, they were in the same order. Those under the banner of the division led by the tribe of Judah started out first, company by company, with Nahshon son of Amminadab in command. 
saying: : “Lord God Almighty, the one who is and who was! : We thank you that you have taken your great power : and have begun to rule! 
King Shishak came to Jerusalem and took the treasures from the Temple and from the palace. He took everything, including the gold shields that King Solomon had made. 
The LORD had told him that Jeroboam's wife was coming to ask him about her son, who was ill. And the LORD told Ahijah what to say. : When Jeroboam's wife arrived, she pretended to be someone else. 
Elisha answered, “By the living LORD, whom I serve, I swear that I will not accept a gift.” : Naaman insisted that he accept it, but he would not. 
No wise person would talk as you do : or defend himself with such meaningless words. 
from the murder of Abel to the murder of Zechariah, who was killed between the altar and the Holy Place. Yes, I tell you, the people of this time will be punished for them all! 
and prevent you from doing the wrong thing. They will keep you away from people who stir up trouble by what they say — 
Gaal fled, and Abimelech pursued him. Many were wounded, even at the city gate. 
This is the part of the food offered to the LORD that was given to Aaron and his sons on the day they were ordained as priests. 
Solomon ruled in Jerusalem over all Israel for forty years. 
“I praise the Lord, the great King; 
Surely you know that the wicked will not possess God's Kingdom. Do not fool yourselves; people who are immoral or who worship idols or are adulterers or homosexual perverts 
And the prophet went on to say, “This altar will fall apart, and the ashes on it will be scattered. Then you will know that the LORD has spoken through me.” 
after that, he lived another 207 years and had other children. 
Don't bother going after him. It's too late. He is gone, like a deer escaped from a trap. 
Through the Son, then, God decided to bring the whole universe back to himself. God made peace through his Son's blood on the cross and so brought back to himself all things, both on earth and in heaven. 
Balaam said to them, “Spend the night here, and tomorrow I will report to you whatever the LORD tells me.” So the Moabite leaders stayed with Balaam. 
For how can those who abandon their faith be brought back to repent again? They were once in God's light; they tasted heaven's gift and received their share of the Holy Spirit; 
“Then you took the sons and the daughters you had borne me and offered them as sacrifices to idols. Wasn't it bad enough to be unfaithful to me, 
If anyone makes himself or herself clean from all those evil things, they will be used for special purposes, because they are dedicated and useful to their Master, ready to be used for every good deed. 
Does a hawk learn from you how to fly : when it spreads its wings towards the south? 
“Who was it that brought the conqueror from the east, : and makes him triumphant wherever he goes? : Who gives him victory over kings and nations? : His sword strikes them down as if they were dust. : His arrows scatter them like straw before the wind. 
about the day you stood in the presence of the LORD your God at Mount Sinai, when he said to me, ‘Assemble the people. I want them to hear what I have to say, so that they will learn to obey me as long as they live and so that they will teach their children to do the same.’ 
A sinner has no more in common with a devout person than a wolf has with a lamb. 
But in days to come the LORD will make Moab prosperous again. All of this is what the LORD has said will happen to Moab.
Jerusalem, be strong and great again! : Holy city of God, clothe yourself with splendour! : The heathen will never enter your gates again. 
Zanoah, Engannim, Tappuah, Enam, 
She went and told his companions. They were mourning and crying; 
Do not let all kinds of strange teachings lead you from the right way. It is good to receive inner strength from God's grace, and not by obeying rules about foods; those who obey these rules have not been helped by them. 
I am on your side, and I will make sure that your land is ploughed again and that seeds are sown there. 
Everyone will be disgraced, and all who are proud will be humbled. 
He went in and said to them, “Why all this confusion? Why are you crying? The child is not dead — she is only sleeping!” 
“Make a cover for the Tent out of eleven pieces of cloth made of goats' hair. 
He also cooked some tasty food and took it to his father. He said, “Please, father, sit up and eat some of the meat that I have brought you, so that you can give me your blessing.” 
Then Jesus looked up to heaven, gave a deep groan, and said to the man, “Ephphatha,”   which means, “Open up!” 
“People of Israel, run away from Babylonia! Leave the country! Be the first to leave! 
They lifted him out of his chariot, placed him in a second chariot which he had there, and took him to Jerusalem. There he died and was buried in the royal tombs. All the people of Judah and Jerusalem mourned his death. 
Jesus answered, “You see these great buildings? Not a single stone here will be left in its place; every one of them will be thrown down.” 
Look for it as hard as you would for silver or some hidden treasure. 
Again Peter said “No” — and at once a cock crowed. 
He placed all the men in the city under the command of army officers and ordered them to assemble in the open square at the city gate. He said to them, 
Get a skilful jeweller to engrave on the two stones the names of the sons of Jacob, and mount the stones in gold settings. 
Abner sent messengers to David, who at that time was at Hebron, to say, “Who is going to rule this land? Make an agreement with me, and I will help you win all Israel over to your side.” 
Take two carnelian stones and engrave on them the names of the twelve sons of Jacob, 
David called in the priests Zadok and Abiathar and the six Levites, Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab. 
So then, my brothers and sisters, how dear you are to me and how I miss you! How happy you make me, and how proud I am of you! This then, dear brothers and sisters, is how you should stand firm in your life in the Lord. 
The LORD said, “Sing for joy, people of Jerusalem! I am coming to live among you!” 
Who has ever mastered heavenly knowledge? : Who has ever caught the wind in his hand? : Or wrapped up water in a piece of cloth? : Or fixed the boundaries of the earth? : Who is he, if you know? Who is his son? 
Then Jesus called the crowd to him and said to them, “Listen and understand!  
“I myself will prepare your way, : levelling mountains and hills. : I will break down bronze gates : and smash their iron bars. 
Whoever hears you will take notice of it, and sooner or later will hate you for it. 
He will not argue or shout, : or make loud speeches in the streets. 
Do what I say, and you will live. Be as careful to follow my teaching as you are to protect your eyes. 
“Wherever there is a dead body, the vultures will gather. 
He removed from the Temple the symbol of the goddess Asherah, took it out of the city to the valley of the Kidron, burnt it, pounded its ashes to dust, and scattered it over the public burial ground. 
When I make Egypt a desolate waste and destroy all who live there, they will know that I am the LORD. 
You are righteous, LORD, : and your laws are just. 
“And yet, my people, it was for your sake that I totally destroyed the Amorites, who were as tall as cedar trees and as strong as oaks. 
He makes nations strong and great, : but then he defeats and destroys them. 
and said to them, “This is what is written: the Messiah must suffer and must rise from death three days later,  
Do not lose courage or be afraid because of the rumours you hear. Every year a different rumour spreads — rumours of violence in the land and of one king fighting another. 
But you, my friends, already know this. Be on your guard, then, so that you will not be led away by the errors of lawless people and fall from your safe position. 
What did you gain from doing the things that you are now ashamed of? The result of those things is death! 
It is useless for them to cry out; : Almighty God does not see or hear them. 
No one else like Enoch has ever walked the face of the earth, for he was taken up from the earth. 
Were you there when I made the world? : If you know so much, tell me about it. 
But Jesus answered, “We must go on to the other villages round here. I have to preach in them also, because that is why I came.” 
That is the fate of those : who shake their fists at God : and defy the Almighty. 
but we cannot allow them to marry our daughters, because we have put a curse on anyone of us who allows a Benjaminite to marry one of our daughters.” 
I will make you my own people, and I will be your God. You will know that I am the LORD your God when I set you free from slavery in Egypt. 
He said to Moses, “Get out of my sight! Don't let me ever see you again! On the day I do, you will die!” 
“Just as the new earth and the new heavens will endure by my power, so your descendants and your name will endure. 
The LORD will punish the Egyptians, but then he will heal them. They will turn to him, and he will hear their prayers and heal them. 
“Celebrate the Harvest Festival when you begin to harvest your crops. : “Celebrate the Festival of Shelters in the autumn, when you gather the fruit from your vineyards and orchards. 
If a person never says anything carelessly, he is to be congratulated; he doesn't need to feel guilty. 
the God of Israel, told me to say to the people: “I made a covenant with your ancestors when I rescued them from Egypt and set them free from slavery. I told them that 
Don't reach out for everything you see, and don't elbow people out of the way to get at the food. 
The LORD will scatter you like straw that is blown away by the desert wind. 
The LORD said to Moses, 
If Timothy comes your way, be sure to make him feel welcome among you, because he is working for the Lord, just as I am. 
or carry anything out of their houses on the Sabbath. They must not work on the Sabbath; they must observe it as a sacred day, as I commanded their ancestors. 
His parents answered, “We know that he is our son, and we know that he was born blind. 
Sensible people will see trouble coming and avoid it, but an unthinking person will walk right into it and regret it later. 
LORD God, do not reject the king you have chosen. Remember the love you had for your servant David.”
These clans numbered 43,730 men. 
Don't be happy over the death of anyone; remember that all of us must die. 
He says, “Many women are good wives, but you are the best of them all.” 
The LORD will make you prosperous in all that you do; you will have many children and a lot of livestock, and your fields will produce abundant crops. He will be as glad to make you prosperous as he was to make your ancestors prosperous, 
For to every person who has something, even more will be given, and he will have more than enough; but the person who has nothing, even the little that he has will be taken away from him.  
Go to the LORD for help, : and worship him continually. 
His friend replied, “It's the sword of the Israelite, Gideon son of Joash! It can't mean anything else! God has given him victory over Midian and our whole army!” 
One of them, named Cleopas, asked him, “Are you the only visitor in Jerusalem who doesn't know the things that have been happening there these last few days?” 
Then Phinehas and the leaders left the people of Reuben and Gad in the land of Gilead and went back to Canaan, to the people of Israel, and reported to them. 
The king of Ammon answered Jephthah's messengers, “When the Israelites came out of Egypt, they took away my land from the River Arnon to the River Jabbok and the River Jordan. Now you must give it back peacefully.” 
His eyes were like a flame of fire, and he wore many crowns on his head. He had a name written on him, but no one except himself knows what it is. 
The seeds that fell among thorn bushes stand for those who hear; but the worries and riches and pleasures of this life crowd in and choke them, and their fruit never ripens.  
Naaman, the commander of the Syrian army, was highly respected and esteemed by the king of Syria, because through Naaman the LORD had given victory to the Syrian forces. He was a great soldier, but he suffered from a dreaded skin disease. 
At noon it dries up the land; : no one can stand its blazing heat. 
The rooms at the upper level of the building were narrower than those at the middle and lower levels because they were set further back. 
Now tell the Israelites what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying: why must you commit the same sins your ancestors did and go running after their idols? 
Happiness has gone out of our lives; : grief has taken the place of our dances. 
Save me, I pray, from my brother Esau. I am afraid — afraid that he is coming to attack us and destroy us all, even the women and children. 
She answered, “I want some pools of water. The land you have given me is in the dry country.” So Caleb gave her the upper and lower springs. 
King Amaziah of Judah lived fifteen years after the death of King Jehoash of Israel. 
and to the people in the towns of Hormah, Borashan, Athach, 
And I have been made a servant of the church by God, who gave me this task to perform for your good. It is the task of fully proclaiming his message, 
Joshua wrote these commands in the book of the Law of God. Then he took a large stone and set it up under the oak tree in the LORD's sanctuary. 
“I grieve for you, my brother Jonathan; : how dear you were to me! : How wonderful was your love for me, : better even than the love of women. 
: Clan of Parosh: Ramiah, Izziah, Malchijah, Mijamin, Eleazar, Malchijah, and Benaiah 
Suddenly the Spirit of the LORD will take control of you, and you will join in their religious dancing and shouting and will become a different person. 
When Achior had finished his speech, all the people standing round the tent began to protest. Holofernes' own senior officers, as well as the Moabites and those from the Mediterranean coast, demanded that Achior be put to death. 
“These are all the laws that the LORD your God commanded me to teach you. Obey them in the land that you are about to enter and occupy. 
Samuel was displeased with their request for a king; so he prayed to the LORD, 
The four living creatures sing songs of glory and honour and thanks to the one who sits on the throne, who lives for ever and ever. When they do so, 
I tell you indeed: the punishment for all these murders will fall on the people of this day! 
Once inside, they went to Ishbosheth's bedroom, where he was sound asleep, and killed him. Then they cut off his head, took it with them, and walked all night through the Jordan Valley. 
In the letter that I wrote you I told you not to associate with immoral people. 
Solomon woke up and realized that God had spoken to him in the dream. Then he went to Jerusalem and stood in front of the LORD's Covenant Box and offered burnt offerings and fellowship offerings to the LORD. After that he gave a feast for all his officials. 
Adah bore Eliphaz; Basemath bore Reuel; 
If we say we love God, but hate our brothers and sisters, we are liars. For people cannot love God, whom they have not seen, if they do not love their brothers and sisters, whom they have seen. 
The righteous will praise you indeed; : they will live in your presence.
This is the greatest and the most important commandment.  
May my words and my thoughts be acceptable to you, : O LORD, my refuge and my redeemer!
Now the snake was the most cunning animal that the LORD God had made. The snake asked the woman, “Did God really tell you not to eat fruit from any tree in the garden?” 
Why let people go on living in misery? : Why give light to those in grief? 
When sinners tempt you, my child, don't give in. 
On with it, then, and finish the job! Be as eager to finish it as you were to plan it, and do it with what you now have. 
There are times when you have to depend on his skill. 
It was faith that made him establish the Passover and order the blood to be sprinkled on the doors, so that the Angel of Death would not kill the firstborn sons of the Israelites. 
So they gave Jacob all the foreign gods that they had and also the earrings that they were wearing. He buried them beneath the oak tree near Shechem. 
In the towns of the hill country, in the foothills, and in southern Judah, in the territory of Benjamin, in the villages round Jerusalem, and in the towns of Judah, shepherds will once again count their sheep. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
Some in the crowd shouted one thing, others something else. There was such confusion that the commander could not find out exactly what had happened, so he ordered his men to take Paul up into the fort. 
and David, who was in the wilderness, heard about it, 
Go away from me, you sinful people. : I will obey the commands of my God. 
He had a large army ready for battle. Its records were kept by his secretaries Jeiel and Maaseiah under the supervision of Hananiah, a member of the king's staff. 
In the same way also, these people have visions which make them sin against their own bodies; they despise God's authority and insult the glorious beings above. 
Today the LORD has accepted you as his own people, as he promised you; and he commands you to obey all his laws. 
King Josiah celebrated the Passover at Jerusalem in honour of the LORD; on the fourteenth day of the first month they killed the animals for the festival. 
You saw how the LORD completely wiped out the Egyptian army, along with their horses and chariots, by drowning them in the Red Sea when they were pursuing you. 
When the people saw it, they were afraid, and praised God for giving such authority to people. 
After all, who is a real Jew, truly circumcised? It is not the man who is a Jew on the outside, whose circumcision is a physical thing. 
He fought on David's side against the Philistines at the battle of Pas Dammim. He was in a barley field when the Israelites started to run away, 
Then the disciples took up twelve baskets full of what was left of the bread and the fish. 
But he will crush everyone who sins and rebels against him; he will kill everyone who forsakes him. 
But in spite of all this, the people did not abandon their sinful ways until they were taken from their land as prisoners and scattered all over the world. This left the nation few in number, but those who remained were still ruled by the descendants of David. 
Kedesh, Jokneam (in Carmel), 
Your allies have deceived you; : they have driven you from your country. : People who were at peace with you have now conquered you. : Those friends who ate with you have laid a trap for you; : they say of you, ‘Where is all that cleverness he had?’ 
Praise the LORD, my soul! : O LORD, my God, how great you are! : You are clothed with majesty and glory; 
Saul's father Kish and Abner's father Ner were sons of Abiel. 
for cutting jewels to be set; for carving wood; and for every other kind of artistic work. 
This news about Jesus went out through all the country and the surrounding territory. 
Even today, whenever they read the Law of Moses, the veil still covers their minds. 
So they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him, shouting, “Praise God! God bless him who comes in the name of the Lord! God bless the King of Israel!” 
Then one of the twelve disciples — the one named Judas Iscariot — went to the chief priests 
I will make him stubborn, and he will pursue you, and my victory over the king and his army will bring me honour. Then the Egyptians will know that I am the LORD.” The Israelites did as they were told. 
Lead on, Deborah, lead on! : Lead on! Sing a song! Lead on! : Forward, Barak son of Abinoam, : lead your captives away! 
and will know that I am the one who punishes them. : “But I will spare some of them and send them to the nations and the distant lands that have not heard of my fame or seen my greatness and power: to Spain, Libya, and Lydia, with its skilled archers, and to Tubal and Greece. Among these nations they will proclaim my greatness. 
and you do not keep his message in your hearts, for you do not believe in the one whom he sent.  
The smoke of the burning incense went up with the prayers of God's people from the hands of the angel standing before God. 
Indeed he was ill and almost died. But God had pity on him, and not only on him but on me, too, and spared me an even greater sorrow. 
a blessing, if you obey the commands of the LORD your God that I am giving you today; 
Anyone who touches his bed 
even there he showed his great power. : Let all who live hear your praise. : The Lord is our God and father for ever. 
May you, his people, always be faithful to the LORD our God, obeying all his laws and commands, as you do today.” 
I kept quiet, not saying a word, : not even about anything good! : But my suffering only grew worse, 
But I tell you that not even King Solomon with all his wealth had clothes as beautiful as one of these flowers.  
I can hardly see; : my eyes are so swollen : from the weeping caused by my enemies. 
They had to live in caves, : in holes dug in the sides of cliffs. 
They protected us day and night the whole time we were with them looking after our flocks. 
But when our time with them was over, we left and went on our way. All of them, together with their wives and children, went with us out of the city to the beach, where we all knelt and prayed. 
and Leah said, “How happy I am! Now women will call me happy”; so she named him Asher. 
When the servant of Abraham heard this, he bowed down and worshipped the LORD. 
Your children will wander in the wilderness for forty years, suffering for your unfaithfulness, until the last one of you dies. 
They sacrificed to gods that are not real, : new gods their ancestors had never known, : gods that Israel had never obeyed, 
I could strengthen you with advice : and keep talking to comfort you. 
Jehoiakim was 25 years old when he became king of Judah, and he ruled in Jerusalem for eleven years. He sinned against the LORD his God. 
Then Eliakim, Shebna, and Joah tore their clothes in grief, and went and reported to the king what the Assyrian official had said.
He shall kill one of the birds over a clay bowl containing fresh spring water. 
and after leaving they said to each other, “This man has not done anything for which he should die or be put in prison.” 
This second beast performed great miracles; it made fire come down out of heaven to earth in the sight of everyone. 
So I went back, and when I found the place where I had hidden them, I saw that they were ruined and were no longer any good. 
“The LORD your God will bless you in the land that he is giving you. Not one of your people will be poor 
God accepted Manasseh's prayer and answered it by letting him go back to Jerusalem and rule again. This convinced Manasseh that the LORD was God. 
Their emperor will run away in terror, and the officers will be so frightened that they will abandon their battle flags.” The LORD has spoken — the LORD who is worshipped in Jerusalem and whose fire burns there for sacrifices.
When Silas and Timothy arrived from Macedonia, Paul gave his whole time to preaching the message, testifying to the Jews that Jesus is the Messiah. 
Jesus said to Peter, “I tell you that before the cock crows tonight, you will say three times that you do not know me.” 
The LORD says, : “O Jerusalem, you suffering, helpless city, : with no one to comfort you, : I will rebuild your foundations with precious stones. 
He will assure you that things look good, and then stand back to watch what happens to you. 
“The king of Syria will do as he pleases. He will boast that he is greater than any god, superior even to the Supreme God. He will be able to do this until the time when God punishes him. God will do exactly what he has planned. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “prophesy and announce what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying. You are to shout these words: : A day of terror is coming! 
By his own will he brought us into being through the word of truth, so that we should have first place among all his creatures. 
Perhaps the people will listen and give up their evil ways. If they do, then I will change my mind about the destruction I plan to bring on them for all their wicked deeds.” 
My strength is gone, : gone like water spilt on the ground. : All my bones are out of joint; : my heart is like melted wax. 
As the men were leaving Jesus, Peter said to him, “Master, how good it is that we are here! We will make three tents, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.” (He did not really know what he was saying.) 
so Ahab called in Obadiah, who was in charge of the palace. (Obadiah was a devout worshipper of the LORD, 
God has raised this very Jesus from death, and we are all witnesses to this fact. 
Jeshua and Kadmiel (descendants of Hodaviah) — 74 
This was the territory of the Ephraimite families: their border ran from Ataroth Addar eastwards to Upper Beth Horon, 
God stretched out the northern sky : and hung the earth in empty space. 
If someone dies in a tent, anyone who is in the tent at the time of death or who enters it becomes ritually unclean for seven days. 
Anyone who breaks this law will no longer be considered one of God's people. 
You will sow corn, but not harvest the crop. You will press oil from olives, but never be able to use it. You will make wine, but never drink it. 
When they drink, they forget the laws and ignore the rights of people in need. 
Now, however, that truth has been brought out into the open through the writings of the prophets; and by the command of the eternal God it is made known to all nations, so that all may believe and obey. 
My opinion is that it is better for you to finish now what you began last year. You were the first, not only to act, but also to be willing to act. 
The voice spoke to him again, “Do not consider anything unclean that God has declared clean.”  
But for David's sake, the LORD his God gave Abijah a son to rule after him in Jerusalem and to keep Jerusalem secure. 
“The man was made king and came back. At once he ordered his servants to appear before him, in order to find out how much they had earned.  
God is in that city, and it will never be destroyed; : at early dawn he will come to its aid. 
Jesus knew what they were thinking, so he took a child, stood him by his side, 
Adultery is a trap — it catches those with whom the LORD is angry. 
Jesse sent David to Saul with a young goat, a donkey loaded with bread, and a leather bag full of wine. 
For this reason Christ is the one who arranges a new covenant, so that those who have been called by God may receive the eternal blessings that God has promised. This can be done because there has been a death which sets people free from the wrongs they did while the first covenant was in force. 
I am going to gather the people from all the countries where I have scattered them in my anger and fury, and I am going to bring them back to this place and let them live here in safety. 
Joshua said to the tribes of Reuben and Gad and to half the tribe of Manasseh, 
“All the men of your nation are to come to worship the LORD three times a year at the one place of worship: at Passover, Harvest Festival, and the Festival of Shelters. Each man is to bring a gift 
A healthy tree bears good fruit, but a poor tree bears bad fruit.  
watch them to see where they are reaping and stay with them. I have ordered my men not to molest you. And whenever you are thirsty, go and drink from the water jars that they have filled.” 
For the law of the Spirit, which brings us life in union with Christ Jesus, has set me free from the law of sin and death. 
Let them watch you putting your pack on your shoulder and going out into the dark with your eyes covered, so that you can't see where you are going. What you do will be a warning to the Israelites.” 
The tribe of Issachar: the clans of Tola, Puah, 
One day Jesus was standing on the shore of Lake Gennesaret while the people pushed their way up to him to listen to the word of God. 
500 other members of the tribe of Simeon went east to Edom. They were led by the sons of Ishi: Pelatiah, Neariah, Rephaiah, and Uzziel. 
Samson said to the boy who was leading him by the hand, “Let me touch the pillars that hold up the building. I want to lean on them.” 
Mizpah, Chephirah, Mozah, 
He is responsible for helping and defending me. 
and the Israelites drove the Syrian army back. David and his men killed 700 Syrian chariot drivers and 40,000 horsemen, and they wounded Shobach, the enemy commander, who died on the battlefield. 
“I will send an angel ahead of you to protect you as you travel and to bring you to the place which I have prepared. 
When they were punished with those creatures they considered gods, they became bitterly disillusioned and recognized that the true God was the one they had always refused to acknowledge. That is why they suffered the final punishment.
Make up your minds beforehand not to worry about how you will defend yourselves,  
Goliath stood and shouted at the Israelites, “What are you doing there, lined up for battle? I am a Philistine, you slaves of Saul! Choose one of your men to fight me. 
But the LORD made the king stubborn, and he did not let the Israelites go. 
If the foot were to say, “Because I am not a hand, I don't belong to the body,” that would not keep it from being a part of the body. 
because his only daughter, who was twelve years old, was dying. : As Jesus went along, the people were crowding him from every side. 
So Jesus asked him, “What is your name?” : The man answered, “My name is ‘Mob’ — there are so many of us!” 
You must change the way you are living and the things you are doing, and must obey the LORD your God. If you do, he will change his mind about the destruction that he said he would bring on you. 
Elijah walked a whole day into the wilderness. He stopped and sat down in the shade of a tree and wished he would die. “It's too much, LORD,” he prayed. “Take away my life; I might as well be dead!” 
he would stick the fork into the cooking pot, and whatever the fork brought out belonged to the priest. All the Israelites who came to Shiloh to offer sacrifices were treated like this. 
You will be called “God's Holy People”, : “The People the LORD has Saved”. : Jerusalem will be called “The City that God Loves”, : “The City that God did not Forsake”.
The messengers were sent off and went to Antioch, where they gathered the whole group of believers and gave them the letter. 
The king of Syria was at war with Israel. He consulted his officers and chose a place to set up his camp. 
Even though you claim to worship the LORD, : you do not mean what you say. 
Each of you must respect his mother and his father, and must keep the Sabbath, as I have commanded. I am the LORD your God. 
They called out 26,000 soldiers from their cities that day. Besides these, the citizens of Gibeah gathered 700 specially chosen men who were left-handed. Every one of them could sling a stone at a strand of hair and never miss. 
Foolish people don't care if they sin, but good people want to be forgiven. 
The corpses of their soldiers will be left exposed to the birds and the wild animals. In summer the birds will feed on them, and in winter, the animals.” 
They agreed on which part of the land each one would explore, and set off in different directions. 
The wicked say, “Come on, then, let's enjoy the good things of life, and live in this world just as we did when we were young and free of care! 
But even if you should suffer for doing what is right, how happy you are! Do not be afraid of anyone, and do not worry. 
You also saw that the iron was mixed with the clay. This means that the rulers of that empire will try to unite their families by intermarriage, but they will not be able to, any more than iron can mix with clay. 
So I took the wise and experienced leaders you chose from your tribes, and I placed them in charge of you. Some were responsible for a thousand people, some for a hundred, some for fifty, and some for ten. I also appointed other officials throughout the tribes. 
King Amaziah of Judah outlived King Jehoash of Israel by fifteen years. 
Instead, they will swear by me as the living God who brought the people of Israel out of a northern land and out of all the other countries where I had scattered them. I will bring them back to their own country, to the land that I gave their ancestors. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
even though she had been treated by many doctors. She had spent all her money, but instead of getting better she got worse all the time. 
Like fire they eat up the plants. : In front of them the land is like the Garden of Eden, : but behind them it is a barren desert. : Nothing escapes them. 
if you obey him and carefully observe everything that I command you today. 
For God will not show mercy when he judges the person who has not been merciful; but mercy triumphs over judgement. 
Then I will bring severe punishment on Egypt and lead the tribes of my people out of the land. 
He will wipe away all tears from their eyes. There will be no more death, no more grief or crying or pain. The old things have disappeared.” 
In the same way the chief priests and the teachers of the Law jeered at Jesus, saying to each other, “He saved others, but he cannot save himself! 
An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone over them. They were terribly afraid, 
The sun still rises, and it still goes down, going wearily back to where it must start all over again. 
Sing a new song to the LORD! : Sing to the LORD, all the world! 
After all, who is Apollos? And who is Paul? We are simply God's servants, by whom you were led to believe. Each one of us does the work which the Lord gave him to do
Only Caleb son of Jephunneh will enter it. He has remained faithful to me, and I will give him and his descendants the land that he has explored.’ 
Tobit tried to comfort her. “Calm down, my dear,” he said. “Don't worry. He will be all right. Something unexpected is probably keeping them there longer than we counted on. Besides, his companion is a reliable man and a relative at that. Don't let yourself get so upset over him, dear. I'm sure he is already on his way home.” 
He or she can run away to one of these cities, go to the place of judgement at the entrance to the city, and explain to the leaders what happened. Then they will let him or her into the city and give them a place to live in, so that they can stay there. 
Water cannot put it out; : no flood can drown it. : But if anyone tried to buy love with wealth, : contempt is all they would get. 
So David and his men started out early the following morning to go back to Philistia, and the Philistines went on to Jezreel.
Hazor Hadattah, Kerioth Hezron (or Hazor), 
“Tell me what happened,” David said. : “Our army ran away from the battle,” he replied, “and many of our men were killed. Saul and his son Jonathan were also killed.” 
So now your false visions and misleading predictions are over. I am rescuing my people from your power, so that you will know that I am the LORD.”
Now stop worrying about them, dear. A good angel will go with Tobias. He will have a successful journey and will come back in good health.” At that, Anna calmed down and stopped crying.
But God will have mercy on his people again, and he will bring them back to the land of Israel. They will rebuild the Temple, but it will not be as splendid as the first Temple, not until the proper time has come. But when that time does come, all the people of Israel will return from exile, and they will rebuild the city of Jerusalem in all its former splendour. They will rebuild God's temple in Jerusalem, just as Israel's prophets have foretold. 
and I assign the Levites to Aaron and his sons, as a gift from the Israelites, to work in the Tent for the people of Israel and to protect the Israelites from the disaster that would strike them if they came too near the Holy Place.” 
(No one can break iron, especially the iron from the north that is mixed with bronze.) 
So Moses and Aaron said to all the Israelites, “This evening you will know that it was the LORD who brought you out of Egypt. 
and said, “Sirs, I am here to serve you. Please come to my house. You can wash your feet and stay the night. In the morning you can get up early and go on your way.” : But they answered, “No, we will spend the night here in the city square.” 
and came to him and said, “Long live the King of the Jews!” And they went up and slapped him. 
Do not bring on your own death by sinful actions. 
“You mustn't go with us,” they answered. “It won't make any difference to the enemy if the rest of us turn and run, or even if half of us are killed; but you are worth 10,000 of us. It will be better if you stay here in the city and send us help.” 
and destroyed all the enemy rulers of Philistia. 
But God finds excuses for attacking me : and treats me like an enemy. 
When you find yourself with stupid people, look for some excuse to leave, but when you are with serious-minded people, stay as long as you can. 
You should not get up and walk out on someone who is insolent. He might twist your words and use them against you. 
For the scripture says, “Do not muzzle an ox when you are using it to thresh corn” and “Workers should be given their pay.”  
They keep far away from the noisy cities, : and no one can tame them and make them work. 
tell them that I, the Sovereign LORD, am going to take the stick representing Israel and put it with the one that represents Judah. Out of the two I will make one stick and hold it in my hand. 
But the vine answered, ‘In order to govern you, I would have to stop producing my wine, that makes gods and human beings happy.’ 
Then his mother began to cry. “How could you send my son away like this?” she complained. “He's our only means of support. Who will take care of us now? 
Zedekiah, listen to what I say about you. You will not be killed in battle. 
and dance to the music of harps and flutes. 
The gates of Jericho were kept shut and guarded to keep the Israelites out. No one could enter or leave the city. 
“If you have ears, then, listen to what the Spirit says to the churches!
This, then, was the third time Jesus appeared to the disciples after he was raised from death. 
Wine and music can make you happy, but a happy marriage is even better. 
Then he had intercourse with his wife again, and she became pregnant and had a son. They named him Beriah, because of the trouble that had come to their family. 
In such cases the community shall judge in favour of the one who caused the death and not in favour of the dead person's relative who is seeking revenge. 
David also gave him the plans for organizing the priests and Levites to perform their duties, to do the work of the Temple, and to take care of all the temple utensils. 
Now then, my sons, listen to me. Pay attention to what I say. 
There is no god like you, O Lord, : not one has done what you have done. 
I can hardly wait to speak. : I can't hold back the words. 
If Joshua had given the people the rest that God had promised, God would not have spoken later about another day. 
Like King Jeroboam before him, he sinned against the LORD and led Israel into sin.
but a cloudy mist restores it all to life : as the weather cools and dew appears. 
They may have many sons, : but all will be killed in war; : their children never have enough to eat. 
You may be important, but the LORD will pick you up and throw you away. 
(For all the citizens of Athens and the foreigners who lived there liked to spend all their time telling and hearing the latest new thing.) 
He rescues them from oppression and violence; : their lives are precious to him. 
When the cloud stayed over the Tent for a long time, they obeyed the LORD and did not move on. 
Then Jacob prayed, “God of my grandfather Abraham and God of my father Isaac, hear me! You told me, LORD, to go back to my land and to my relatives, and you would make everything go well for me. 
Then I took off the sash I was wearing round my waist and shook it out. “This is how God will shake any of you who don't keep your promise,” I said. “God will take away your houses and everything you own, and will leave you with nothing.” : Everyone who was present said, “Amen!” and praised the LORD. And the leaders kept their promise. 
From the high rocks I can see them; : I can watch them from the hills. : They are a nation that lives alone; : They know they are blessed more than other nations. 
You sold your goods for draught horses, war horses, and mules from Beth Togarmah. 
It is better — much better — to have wisdom and knowledge than gold and silver. 
He took the fat, the fat tail, all the fat covering the internal organs, the best part of the liver, the kidneys with the fat on them, and the right hind leg. 
Who is the mother of the ice and the frost, 
This may happen if he hasn't any sense, if the Lord has not given him tact. 
So Saul sent messengers to Jesse to say, “Send me your son David, the one who takes care of the sheep.” 
he said to them, “I'm worried about a dream I have had. I want to know what it means.” 
We can agree only on the condition that you become like us by circumcising all your males. 
I call to the LORD for help, : and from his sacred hill he answers me. 
The LORD said to Aaron, “You, your sons, and the Levites must suffer the consequences of any guilt connected with serving in the Tent of my presence; but only you and your sons will suffer the consequences of service in the priesthood. 
he said to them, “Take my court officials with you; let my son Solomon ride my own mule, and escort him down to the spring of Gihon, 
She is strong and respected and not afraid of the future. 
Three Judeans came out to meet him: the official in charge of the palace, Eliakim son of Hilkiah; the court secretary, Shebna; and the official in charge of the records, Joah son of Asaph. 
When Noah was 601 years old, on the first day of the first month, the water was gone. Noah removed the covering of the boat, looked round, and saw that the ground was getting dry. 
Assyria has also joined them : as a strong ally of the Ammonites and Moabites, the descendants of Lot. 
If you love someone, you will never do them wrong; to love, then, is to obey the whole Law. 
Since I am held guilty, why should I bother? 
The LORD said to me, “Mortal man, do you see that? These people of Judah are not satisfied with merely doing all the disgusting things you have seen here and with spreading violence throughout the country. No, they must come and do them here in the Temple itself and make me even more angry. Look how they insult me in the most offensive way possible!  
But this is what you have in your favour: you hate what the Nicolaitans do, as much as I do. 
Naomi asked her, “Where did you gather all this? Whose field have you been working in? May God bless the man who took an interest in you!” : So Ruth told Naomi that she had been working in a field belonging to a man named Boaz. 
They have rejected me and have offered sacrifices to other gods, and so have stirred up my anger by all they have done. My anger is aroused against Jerusalem, and it will not die down. 
He is the one who destroyed the LORD's shrines and altars and then told the people of Judah and Jerusalem to worship and burn incense at one altar only. 
So Esau lived in the hill country of Edom. 
who were rebuilding the wall. Even those who carried building materials worked with one hand and kept a weapon in the other, 
The Israelites left Mount Hor by the road that leads to the Gulf of Aqaba, in order to go round the territory of Edom. But on the way the people lost their patience 
May he bless you and your descendants as he blessed Abraham, and may you take possession of this land, in which you have lived and which God gave to Abraham!” 
Then you will know that I, the LORD, heard you say with contempt that the mountains of Israel were desolate and that they were yours to devour. 
The officers obeyed Jehoiada's instructions and brought their men to him — those going off duty on the Sabbath and those going on duty. 
You answered me and told me not to be afraid. 
The priests shall burn all this on the altar along with the burnt offerings. The smell of this food offering is pleasing to the LORD. 
He killed an animal, which he offered as a sacrifice on the mountain, and he invited his men to the meal. After they had eaten, they spent the night on the mountain. 
Sometimes it takes a painful experience to make us change our ways.
The king liked her more than any of the other women, and more than any of the others she won his favour and affection. He placed the royal crown on her head and made her queen in place of Vashti. 
Seize their tents and their flocks, their tent curtains and everything in their tents. Take their camels and tell the people, ‘Terror is all round you!’ 
Her uncleanness was easily seen, but she showed no concern for her fate. : Her downfall was terrible; no one can comfort her. : Her enemies have won, and she cries to the LORD for mercy. 
From my blossoming youth to my ripe old age she has been my delight. I have followed directly in her path ever since I was young. 
He made the sun and the moon; : his love is eternal; 
Listen, Lemuel. Kings should not drink wine or have a craving for alcohol. 
Does a lion roar in the forest unless he has found a victim? : Does a young lion growl in his den unless he has caught something? 
“I, the LORD, say that the time is coming when I will fill the land of Israel and Judah with people and animals. 
All of Solomon's drinking cups were made of gold, and all the utensils in the Hall of the Forest of Lebanon were of pure gold. No silver was used, since it was not considered valuable in Solomon's day. 
This book is the account of what was said by Jeremiah son of Hilkiah, one of the priests of the town of Anathoth in the territory of Benjamin. 
One night Eli, who was now almost blind, was sleeping in his own room; 
“The wall and those who covered it with whitewash will feel the force of my anger. Then I will tell you that the wall is gone and so are those who whitewashed it — 
Jesus asked his disciples, “What are you arguing with them about?” 
He promises that as long as the natural order lasts, : so long will Israel be a nation. 
At that time he and his children shall leave you and return to his family and to the property of his ancestors. 
Can you tie the Pleiades together : or loosen the bonds that hold Orion? 
“Stand over there,” the king said; and he went over and stood there. 
The Lord, who lives for ever, created the whole universe, 
So King Joram and the kings of Judah and Edom set out. After marching for seven days, they ran out of water, and there was none left for the men or the pack animals. 
That is why a man leaves his father and mother and is united with his wife, and they become one. 
They look for help, but no one saves them; : they call to the LORD, but he does not answer. 
“I have made a covenant with the day and with the night, so that they always come at their proper times; and that covenant can never be broken. 
I had a pleasant personality, even as a child. I had been fortunate enough to receive a good soul, or rather, I was given a sound body to live in because I was already good. 
The Sovereign LORD said, “The Philistines have taken cruel revenge on their age-long enemies and destroyed them in their hate. 
And if he will not listen to them, then tell the whole thing to the church. Finally, if he will not listen to the church, treat him as though he were a pagan or a tax collector. 
“Father,” he prayed, “my Father! All things are possible for you. Take this cup of suffering away from me. Yet not what I want, but what you want.” 
The LORD was angry with them; and so as he departed 
However, if the owner is allowed to pay a fine to save his life, he must pay the full amount required. 
Instead, I am content and at peace. : As a child lies quietly in its mother's arms, : so my heart is quiet within me. 
I shall come to you after I have gone through Macedonia — for I have to go through Macedonia. 
In my trouble I called to the LORD; : I called to my God for help. : In his temple he heard my voice; : he listened to my cry for help. 
Those who depend on obeying the Law live under a curse. For the scripture says, “Whoever does not always obey everything that is written in the book of the Law is under God's curse!” 
that you will not harm us, just as we did not harm you. We were kind to you and let you leave peacefully. Now it is clear that the LORD has blessed you.” 
praising God, and enjoying the good will of all the people. And every day the Lord added to their group those who were being saved.
May those who try to kill me : be defeated and confused. : May those who are happy because of my troubles : be turned back and disgraced. 
It was our idea that, if this should ever happen, our descendants could say, ‘Look! Our ancestors made an altar just like the LORD's altar. It was not for burning offerings or for sacrifice, but as a sign for our people and yours.’ 
You love evil more than good : and falsehood more than truth. 
Then the apostles and the elders, together with the whole church, decided to choose some men from the group and send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas. They chose two men who were highly respected by the believers, Judas, called Barsabbas, and Silas, 
So they went to John and said, “Teacher, you remember the man who was with you on the east side of the Jordan, the one you spoke about? Well, he is baptizing now, and everyone is going to him!” 
They gathered frequently to pray as a group, together with the women and with Mary the mother of Jesus and with his brothers. 
They made an idol in the shape of a bull calf : and said it was the god who led them from Egypt! : How much they insulted you, LORD! 
They cut off my escape and try to destroy me; : and there is no one to stop them. 
The servant, who was in charge of Abraham's property, took ten of his master's camels and went to the city where Nahor had lived in northern Mesopotamia. 
The Son was made greater than the angels, just as the name that God gave him is greater than theirs. 
The king decorated the Temple with beautiful precious stones and with gold imported from the land of Parvaim. 
They will whip him and kill him, but three days later he will rise to life.” 
Chesed, Hazo, Pildash, Jidlaph, and Bethuel, 
Bring us back, O God our saviour, : and stop being displeased with us! 
On the Lord's day the Spirit took control of me, and I heard a loud voice, that sounded like a trumpet, speaking behind me. 
my eyes are weak from suffering. :   LORD, every day I call to you : and lift my hands to you in prayer. 
Put on all the armour that God gives you, so that you will be able to stand up against the Devil's evil tricks. 
Then the king of Egypt had him released; : the ruler of nations set him free. 
Delilah lulled Samson to sleep in her lap and then called a man, who cut off Samson's seven locks of hair. Then she began to torment him, for he had lost his strength. 
We have heard what God has done, : and now we have seen it : in the city of our God, the LORD Almighty; : he will keep the city safe for ever. 
so that by his grace we might be put right with God and come into possession of the eternal life we hope for. 
then the wind blows on it, and it is gone — : no one sees it again. 
“Listen now, my people, and come to me; : come to me, and you will have life! : I will make a lasting covenant with you : and give you the blessings I promised to David. 
Tell my rebellious people this parable that I, the Sovereign LORD, have for them: : Set the pot on the fire : and fill it up with water. 
The goat represents the kingdom of Greece, and the prominent horn between his eyes is the first king. 
He placed five of the carts on the south side of the Temple, and the other five on the north side; the tank he placed at the south-east corner. 
Why do I keep on suffering? Why are my wounds incurable? Why won't they heal? Do you intend to disappoint me like a stream that goes dry in the summer?” 
Jesus answered them, “How wrong you are! It is because you don't know the Scriptures or God's power.  
The next day was the first time they ate food grown in Canaan: roasted grain and bread made without yeast. 
he sent back this answer: “The LORD tells you not to let the Assyrians frighten you with their claims that he cannot save you. 
Such a man obeys my commands and carefully keeps my laws. He is righteous, and he will live,” says the Sovereign LORD. 
Then he went to the gateway that faced east. He went up the steps, and at the top he measured the entrance; it was three metres deep.  
I tell you that from now on I will not drink this wine until the Kingdom of God comes.” 
For I planned to visit you on my way to Macedonia and again on my way back, in order to get help from you for my journey to Judea. 
They did all these disgusting things and made the land unclean, but you must not do them. All of you, whether Israelites or foreigners living with you, must keep the LORD's laws and commands, 
We have also brought some more money with us to buy more food. We do not know who put our money back in our sacks.” 
You that are righteous, be glad and rejoice : because of what the LORD has done. : You that obey him, shout for joy!
He explained, “Daniel, I have come here to help you understand the prophecy. 
Beautiful words fill my mind, : as I compose this song for the king. : Like the pen of a good writer : my tongue is ready with a poem. 
After moving from Hebron to Jerusalem, David took more concubines and wives, and had more sons and daughters. 
Be lazy if you want to; sleep on, but you will go hungry. 
It is a foolish mistake to think that righteous people die and that their death is a terrible evil. 
When Anna came home with the goat, it began to bleat. I called out, “Where did that goat come from? You stole it, didn't you? Take it straight back to its owners. It's not right to eat stolen food!” 
The spirits of the dead tremble : in the waters under the earth. 
God said to Jacob, “Go to Bethel at once, and live there. Build an altar there to me, the God who appeared to you when you were running away from your brother Esau.” 
Jesus saw her weeping, and he saw how the people who were with her were weeping also; his heart was touched, and he was deeply moved. 
The proud, who do not obey your law, : have dug pits to trap me. 
Offer the first lamb in the morning, and the second in the evening, 
Just as I do not belong to the world, they do not belong to the world.  
said to me: “Write down in a book everything that I have told you, 
If you obey me completely, live by my laws, and win my approval by doing what I command, as my servant David did, I will always be with you. I will make you king of Israel and will make sure that your descendants rule after you, just as I have done for David. 
A male and a female of every kind of animal and bird, whether ritually clean or unclean, went into the boat with Noah, as God had commanded. 
As the Box was being brought into the city, Michal, Saul's daughter, looked out of the window and saw King David dancing and jumping around in the sacred dance, and she was disgusted with him. 
The LORD says, “As a shepherd recovers only two legs or an ear of a sheep that a lion has eaten, so only a few will survive of Samaria's people, who now recline on luxurious couches.  
The winged creatures faced each other across the lid, and their outspread wings covered it. 
But when they were sick, I dressed in mourning; : I deprived myself of food; : I prayed with my head bowed low, 
They will jump up on you, your people, and all your officials.’ ” 
The soldiers carried out their orders. They got Paul and took him that night as far as Antipatris. 
Then Judith said to Holofernes, “Allow me to speak to you, my lord, and please listen to what I have to say. I will tell you the truth. 
and give you to people you are afraid of, people who want to kill you. I will give you to King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia and his soldiers. 
If he has no daughter, his brothers are to inherit it. 
in order to train the younger women to love their husbands and children, 
When they come to kill you, will you still claim that you are a god? When you face your murderers, you will be mortal and not at all divine. 
He will build a temple for me. He will be my son, and I will be his father. His dynasty will rule Israel for ever.’ ” 
The success of that person is in the Lord's hands. The Lord is the source of the honour given to any official. 
Are they going to use their swords for ever and keep on destroying nations without mercy?
When the news reached King Solomon that Joab had fled to the Tent and was by the altar, Solomon sent a messenger to Joab to ask him why he had fled to the altar. Joab answered that he had fled to the LORD because he was afraid of Solomon. So King Solomon sent Benaiah to kill Joab. 
They said to him, “Now we are certain that you have a demon! Abraham died, and the prophets died, yet you say that whoever obeys your teaching will never die. 
All his sons played cymbals and harps under their father's direction, to accompany the temple worship. And Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman were under orders from the king. 
“All priests shall observe the regulations that I have given. Otherwise, they will be guilty and die, because they have disobeyed the sacred regulations. I am the LORD and I make them holy. 
Their bodies were laid to rest, : but their reputations will live for ever. 
The police officers reported these words to the Roman officials; and when they heard that Paul and Silas were Roman citizens, they were afraid. 
Isn't it enough that you have brought us out of the fertile land of Egypt to kill us here in the wilderness? Do you also have to lord it over us? 
The Most High gets no pleasure from sacrifices made by ungodly people; no amount of sacrifices can make up for their sins. 
So that night David and Abishai entered Saul's camp and found Saul sleeping in the centre of the camp with his spear stuck in the ground near his head. Abner and the troops were sleeping round him. 
I made my home in highest heaven, : my throne on a pillar of cloud. 
“Teacher, Moses wrote this law for us: ‘If a man dies and leaves a wife but no children, that man's brother must marry the widow so that they can have children who will be considered the dead man's children.’ 
The LORD promised my father David, ‘Your son, whom I will make king after you, will build a temple for me.’ And I have now decided to build that temple for the worship of the LORD my God. 
The people of Damascus bought your merchandise and your products, paying for them with wine from Helbon and wool from Sahar. They exchanged wrought iron and spices for your goods. 
Do you expect him to bring in your harvest : and gather the grain from your threshing place? 
Joshua son of Nun was filled with wisdom, because Moses had appointed him to be his successor. The people of Israel obeyed Joshua and kept the commands that the LORD had given them through Moses. 
He had thirty sons and thirty daughters. He gave his daughters in marriage outside the clan and brought thirty women from outside the clan for his sons to marry. Ibzan led Israel for seven years, 
A good wife is among the precious blessings given to those who fear the Lord. 
so that you may wade in their blood, : and your dogs may lap up as much as they want.” 
Judas accepted the bread and went out at once. It was night. 
He wrecked forts, he ruined towns. : The people of the land were terrified : every time he roared. 
Next they came to Elim, where there were twelve springs and seventy palm trees; there they camped by the water.
“You have stayed with me all through my trials;  
I do not want to take up too much of your time, however, so I beg you to be kind and listen to our brief account. 
They will be amazed to see them safe and will tremble with terrible fear. 
because God had decided on an even better plan for us. His purpose was that only in company with us would they be made perfect.
The lamp in their tents will be darkened. 
Each of the six branches is to have three decorative flowers shaped like almond blossoms with buds and petals. 
As the apostles left the Council, they were happy, because God had considered them worthy to suffer disgrace for the sake of Jesus. 
They crossed the lake and came to land at Gennesaret, 
Under the direction of Hashabiah, Sherebiah, Jeshua, Binnui, and Kadmiel, the Levites were organized into groups. Two groups at a time praised God responsively and gave thanks to him, in accordance with the instructions given by King David, the man of God. 
The Babylonian army retreated from Jerusalem because the Egyptian army was approaching. 
I know what you do; I know that you have a little power; you have followed my teaching and have been faithful to me. I have opened a door in front of you, which no one can close.  
Don't put your trust in violence; : don't hope to gain anything by robbery; : even if your riches increase, : don't depend on them. 
to be responsible for the bread offered to God, the flour used in offerings, the wafers made without yeast, the baked offerings, and the flour mixed with olive oil; to weigh and measure the temple offerings; 
Now listen, Job, to what I know. 
If anyone has a dreaded skin disease, he shall be brought to the priest, 
Use it to anoint the Tent of my presence, the Covenant Box, 
For God will reward every person according to what each has done. 
I will go in the strength of the LORD God; : I will proclaim your goodness, yours alone. 
Someone may have the ability to teach, but still not be of much use to himself. 
Aaron told them everything that the LORD had said to Moses, and then Moses performed all the miracles in front of the people. 
No one should ask why things are as they are; : everything in creation has its purpose. 
I will renew my covenant with you, and you will know that I am the LORD. 
The bases for the posts were made of bronze, and the hooks, the rods, and the covering of the tops of the posts were made of silver. All the posts round the enclosure were connected with silver rods. 
At that moment Jesus' disciples returned, and they were greatly surprised to find him talking with a woman. But none of them said to her, “What do you want?” or asked him, “Why are you talking with her?” 
Those whom God had already chosen he also set apart to become like his Son, so that the Son would be the eldest brother in a large family. 
It is we, not they, who have received the true circumcision, for we worship God by means of his Spirit and rejoice in our life in union with Christ Jesus. We do not put any trust in external ceremonies. 
The streams are choked with snow and ice, 
Three years of famine? Or three months of running away from the armies of your enemies? Or three days during which the LORD attacks you with his sword and sends an epidemic on your land, using his angel to bring death throughout Israel? What answer shall I give the LORD?” 
Don't ask a woman for advice about a rival of hers, : a coward about war, : a merchant about a bargain, : a buyer about selling, : a stingy person about gratitude, : a cruel person about kindness, : a lazy person about work, : a casual worker about finishing a job, : a lazy slave about a difficult task. : Pay no attention to any advice they may give. 
Ahaz was the father of Jarah, who was the father of three sons: Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. Zimri was the father of Moza, 
Since its blood was not brought into the sacred tent, you should have eaten the sacrifice there, as I commanded.” 
I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats this bread, he will live for ever. The bread that I will give him is my flesh, which I give so that the world may live.” 
All day long my opponents attack me. : There are so many who fight against me. 
When Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel and Joshua son of Jehozadak heard their messages, they began to rebuild the Temple in Jerusalem, and the two prophets helped them. 
He went a little farther on and saw two other brothers, James and John, the sons of Zebedee. They were in their boat getting their nets ready. 
The more easily you get your wealth, the sooner you will lose it. The harder it is to earn, the more you will have. 
In view of all this, what can we say? If God is for us, who can be against us? 
I am sinking in deep mud, : and there is no solid ground; : I am out in deep water, : and the waves are about to drown me. 
After King Solomon had finished the Temple and the palace, successfully completing all his plans for them, 
“Go away!” people shouted. “You're defiled! Don't touch me!” : So they wandered from nation to nation, welcomed by no one. 
But the angel of the LORD called to him from heaven, “Abraham, Abraham!” : He answered, “Yes, here I am.” 
They still carry on their old customs to this day. They do not worship the LORD nor do they obey the laws and commands which he gave to the descendants of Jacob, whom he named Israel. 
Nothing was too hard for him. Even when he was dead, his body worked a miracle. 
His brothers and the rest of his family came down to get his body. They took him back and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol in the tomb of his father Manoah. He had been Israel's leader for twenty years.
She became pregnant and gave birth to a son. She said, “God has taken away my disgrace by giving me a son. 
The four tables in the annexe, used to prepare the offerings to be burnt whole, were of cut stone. They were fifty centimetres high, and their tops were 75 centimetres square. All the equipment used in killing the sacrificial animals was kept on these tables. 
Throughout his life he did what pleased the LORD, because Jehoiada the priest instructed him. 
He took two oxen, cut them in pieces, and sent messengers to carry the pieces throughout the land of Israel with this warning: “Whoever does not follow Saul and Samuel into battle will have this done to his oxen!” : The people of Israel were afraid of what the LORD might do, and all of them, without exception, came out together. 
Some said, “We have large families, we need corn to keep us alive.” 
And so he left his country and went to live in Haran. After Abraham's father died, God made him move to this land where you now live. 
Then King Solomon summoned all the leaders of the tribes and clans of Israel to come to him in Jerusalem in order to take the LORD's Covenant Box from Zion, David's City, to the Temple. 
It even defied the Prince of the heavenly army, stopped the daily sacrifices offered to him, and desecrated the Temple. 
A man in the crowd said to Jesus, “Teacher, tell my brother to divide with me the property our father left us.” 
I was angry and made a solemn promise: : ‘They will never enter the land where I would have given them rest!’ ” 
In spite of everything that had happened, Job did not sin by blaming God.
“Neither,” the man answered. “I am here as the commander of the LORD's army.” : Joshua threw himself on the ground in worship and said, “I am your servant, sir. What do you want me to do?” 
Huram made a round tank of bronze, 2.2 metres deep, 4.4 metres in diameter, and 13.2 metres in circumference. 
Beriah's descendants included Ahio, Shashak, Jeremoth, 
But God will never abandon the faithful : or ever give help to evil people. 
On that day the LORD will say of his pleasant vineyard, 
The Lord's flaming anger will break out against a small gathering of sinners or a disobedient nation. 
I, the LORD, search human minds : and test human hearts. : I treat each one according to the way he lives, : according to what he does.” 
You are to answer them, “Listen to what the LORD is teaching you! Don't listen to mediums — what they tell you cannot keep trouble away.” 
Jesus left them and went out of the city to Bethany, where he spent the night. 
Moses answered, “If you really mean what you say, then here in the presence of the LORD get ready to go into battle. 
For the trouble of those days will be far worse than any the world has ever known from the very beginning when God created the world until the present time. Nor will there ever be anything like it again.  
Yes, all their cattle breed : and give birth without trouble. 
You are free to eat anything sold in the meat market, without asking any questions because of your conscience. 
Nothing makes me happier than to hear that my children live in the truth. 
When you bake bread, the first loaf of the first bread made from the new corn is to be presented as a special contribution to the LORD. This is to be presented in the same way as the special contribution you make from the corn you thresh. 
But Absalom said, “Well, then, will you at least let my brother Amnon come?” : “Why should he?” the king asked. 
It is sinful to break up a friendship by creating hostility among people who get along well together. 
Listen, LORD, to my prayer; : hear my cries for help. 
But you forgive us, : so that we should stand in awe of you. 
I will appoint rulers to take care of them. My people will no longer be afraid or terrified, and I will not punish them again. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
and then lived another 815 years. He had other children 
Your sufferings will make you lose your mind. 
Those who claim to be honest are shocked, : and they all condemn me as godless. 
Gideon answered, “I will not be your ruler, nor will my son. The LORD will be your ruler.” 
nor by earth, for it is the resting place for his feet; nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King.  
The Lord hurled the hail down on the enemy and destroyed them at the pass at Beth Horon, so that the nations would realize how strong Joshua was, since he was fighting as a devoted follower of the Lord. 
They said, “The LORD commanded you to distribute the land to the people of Israel by drawing lots. He also commanded you to give the property of our relative Zelophehad to his daughters. 
If you continue to disobey, then I will do to this Temple what I did to Shiloh, and all the nations of the world will use the name of this city as a curse.” 
That is why God let their enemies kill them and take everything they had. It was a great defeat! 
“Where did it fall?” Elisha asked. : The man showed him the place, and Elisha cut off a stick, threw it in the water, and made the axe head float. 
As Jesus walked along the shore of Lake Galilee, he saw two fishermen, Simon and his brother Andrew, catching fish with a net. 
Money is a trap for those who are fascinated by it, a trap that every fool falls into. 
But when you pray, go to your room, close the door, and pray to your Father, who is unseen. And your Father, who sees what you do in private, will reward you. 
I will drive you out of my sight as I drove out your relatives, the people of Israel. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
The wise can see where they are going, and fools cannot.” But I also know that the same fate is waiting for us all. 
Listen to this, you women of Samaria, who grow fat like the well-fed cows of Bashan, who ill-treat the weak, oppress the poor, and demand that your husbands keep you supplied with liquor! 
But Jesus took the boy by the hand and helped him to rise, and he stood up. 
Jesus looked at his disciples and said, :   “Happy are you poor; :   the Kingdom of God is yours! 
I answered, “Sovereign LORD, I don't know how to speak; I am too young.” 
Then they both said “Amen” 
Then King Ahab of Israel and King Jehoshaphat of Judah went to attack the city of Ramoth in Gilead. 
When I came to you, my brothers and sisters, to preach God's secret truth, I did not use big words and great learning. 
like an olive-tree loaded with fruit, like a cypress-tree towering into the clouds. 
The greater you become, the more humble you should be; then the Lord will be pleased with you.  
I am telling you the truth: he who believes has eternal life.  
at the age of 35, and he ruled in Jerusalem for 25 years. His mother was Azubah, the daughter of Shilhi. 
Praise the LORD! : Praise his name, you servants of the LORD, 
“Do not hold on to me,” Jesus told her, “because I have not yet gone back up to the Father. But go to my brothers and tell them that I am returning to him who is my Father and their Father, my God and their God.” 
Then Joshua killed the kings and hanged them on five trees, where their bodies stayed until evening. 
Bring us back, O God! : Show us your mercy, and we will be saved! 
David said to him, “You will be of no help to me if you come with me, 
Moses looked all round, and when he saw that no one was watching, he killed the Egyptian and hid his body in the sand. 
I have obeyed the law of the LORD; : I have not turned away from my God. 
God bandages the wounds he makes; : his hand hurts you, and his hand heals. 
And with the bread the community is to present seven one-year-old lambs, one bull, and two rams, none of which may have any defects. They shall be offered as a burnt offering to the LORD, together with a grain offering and a wine offering. The smell of this offering is pleasing to the LORD. 
The whole community of Israel left Kadesh and arrived at Mount Hor, 
“The LORD will curse everything you do. 
King Ahab took to the field, captured the horses and chariots, and inflicted a severe defeat on the Syrians. 
Some people brought children to Jesus for him to place his hands on them and to pray for them, but the disciples scolded the people. 
As long as Moses held up his arms, the Israelites won, but when he put his arms down, the Amalekites started winning. 
Their chests were covered with what looked like iron breastplates, and the sound made by their wings was like the noise of many horse-drawn chariots rushing into battle. 
and so that place has been called Perez Uzzah ever since. David was furious because the LORD had punished Uzzah in anger. 
Nathanael asked him, “How do you know me?” : Jesus answered, “I saw you when you were under the fig tree before Philip called you.” 
No one is to enter the temple buildings except the priests and the Levites who are on duty. They may enter, because they are consecrated, but the rest of the people must obey the LORD's instructions and stay outside. 
For 300 years Israel has occupied Heshbon and Aroer, and the towns round them, and all the cities on the banks of the River Arnon. Why haven't you taken them back in all this time? 
You bring bitter charges against me, : even for what I did when I was young. 
He looks at us and knows that we are doomed to die; that is why he is so willing to forgive us. 
Your conduct was perfect from the day you were created until you began to do evil. 
He sends the cold north wind blowing : and the water hardens into ice; : every lake and pond freezes over, : putting on a coat of icy armour. 
Show me proof of your goodness, LORD; : those who hate me will be ashamed : when they see that you have given me comfort and help.
You will be driven away from human society and will live with wild animals. For seven years you will eat grass like an ox, and sleep in the open air, where the dew will fall on you. Then you will admit that the Supreme God controls all human kingdoms, and that he can give them to anyone he chooses. 
particularly since you know so well all the Jewish customs and disputes. I ask you, then, to listen to me with patience. 
so that you may be innocent and pure as God's perfect children, who live in a world of corrupt and sinful people. You must shine among them like stars lighting up the sky, 
He then said to Queen Esther, “In Susa alone the Jews have killed 500 people, including Haman's ten sons. What must they have done out in the provinces! What do you want now? You shall have it. Tell me what else you want, and you shall have it.” 
You have made me as strong as a wild ox; : you have blessed me with happiness. 
Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved; whoever does not believe will be condemned.  
The Israelites turned back against the rest of the Benjaminites and killed them all — men, women, and children, and animals as well. They burnt every town in the area.
Joab and his men advanced to attack, and the Syrians fled. 
God, in his strength, destroys the mighty; : God acts — and the wicked die. 
And then there will be a fourth empire, as strong as iron, which shatters and breaks everything. And just as iron shatters everything, it will shatter and crush all the earlier empires. 
The LORD Almighty says, “The day is coming when all proud and evil people will burn like straw. On that day they will burn up, and there will be nothing left of them. 
and the rich Christians must be glad when God brings them down. For the rich will pass away like the flower of a wild plant. 
he called in his personal servant and said, “Get this woman out of my sight! Throw her out and lock the door!” 
The LORD asked him, “Where have you been?” : Satan answered, “I have been walking here and there, roaming round the earth.” 
When I punish the people for their sins and make the country a waste, then they will know that I am the LORD.” 
“Hold in your hand the two sticks and let the people see them. 
He divided them into herds and put one of his servants in charge of each herd. He said to them, “Go ahead of me, and leave a space between each herd and the one behind it.” 
Like rivers that stop running, : and lakes that go dry, 
While the people were listening to this, Jesus continued and told them a parable. He was now almost at Jerusalem, and they supposed that the Kingdom of God was just about to appear. 
Micah asked him, “Where do you come from?” : He answered, “I am a Levite from Bethlehem in Judah. I am looking for somewhere to live.” 
They came with all their soldiers — an army with as many men as there are grains of sand on the seashore. They also had many horses and chariots. 
“I went back to Jerusalem, and while I was praying in the Temple, I had a vision, 
They did not kill the heathen, : as the LORD had commanded them to do, 
I am not saying that the promise of God has failed; for not all the people of Israel are the people of God. 
son of Shallum, son of Zadok, son of Ahitub, 
Jacob lived in Egypt for seventeen years, until he was 147 years old. 
Is there anyone, even the wisest, : who could ever be of use to God? 
While Jesus was eating, a woman came to him with an alabaster jar filled with an expensive perfume, which she poured on his head. 
Nohah, and Rapha. 
After he drank some of the wine, he became drunk, took off his clothes, and lay naked in his tent. 
But even in this you showed mercy towards their enemies, since they too were human beings. You sent hornets ahead of your army, to destroy the enemy gradually. 
For what my Father wants is that all who see the Son and believe in him should have eternal life. And I will raise them to life on the last day.” 
He is to give a double share of his possessions to his first son, even though he is not the son of his favourite wife. A man must acknowledge his first son and give him the share he is legally entitled to. 
His sons win honour, but he never knows it, : nor is he told when they are disgraced. 
The LORD will use his power to destroy Assyria. He will make the city of Nineveh a deserted ruin, a waterless desert. 
The territory of Manasseh reached from Asher to Michmethath, east of Shechem. The border then went south to include the people of Entappuah. 
“At that time the mountains will be covered with vineyards, : and cattle will be found on every hill; : there will be plenty of water for all the streams of Judah. : A stream will flow from the Temple of the LORD, : and it will water the Valley of Acacia. 
There is no record of Melchizedek's father or mother or of any of his ancestors; no record of his birth or of his death. He is like the Son of God; he remains a priest for ever. 
Now remember what you were, my brothers and sisters, when God called you. From the human point of view few of you were wise or powerful or of high social standing. 
Before you start criticizing, get your facts straight and think the matter through. 
There Joshua set up the twelve stones taken from the Jordan. 
I prayed, “God, remember what Tobiah and Sanballat have done and punish them. Remember that woman Noadiah and all the other prophets who tried to frighten me.” 
Then Herod did an even worse thing by putting John in prison. 
After some time, Cain brought some of his harvest and gave it as an offering to the LORD. 
The bronze objects that King Solomon had made for the Temple — the two columns, the carts, and the large tank — were too heavy to weigh. 
But Peter said, “Certainly not, Lord! I have never eaten anything ritually unclean or defiled.” 
Then I will proclaim your righteousness, : and I will praise you all day long.
Give victory to the king, O LORD; : answer us when we call.
She carried him up to Elisha's room, put him on the bed and left, closing the door behind her. 
Jesus answered, “For a long time I have been with you all; yet you do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. Why, then, do you say, ‘Show us the Father’?  
Next to the holy area, another section, 12.5 kilometres long and 2.5 kilometres wide, is to be set aside for a city where any of the people of Israel may live. 
When the disciples heard the voice, they were so terrified that they threw themselves face downwards on the ground. 
You created every part of me; : you put me together in my mother's womb. 
Suppose a rich man wearing a gold ring and fine clothes comes to your meeting, and a poor man in ragged clothes also comes. 
So Jesus said to those who believed in him, “If you obey my teaching, you are really my disciples;  
I only intended to water my orchard and flower beds, but the canal soon became a river, and the river became a sea. 
But then pull them up — : no one will ever know they were there. 
A bowl is there, : that never runs out of spiced wine. : A sheaf of wheat is there, : surrounded by lilies. 
But now I beg you, forgive my sin and go back with me, so that I can worship the LORD.” 
“And so I tell you,” added Jesus, “the Kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people who will produce the proper fruits.” 
From the throne came flashes of lightning, rumblings, and peals of thunder. In front of the throne seven lighted torches were burning, which are the seven spirits of God. 
This is how an unfaithful wife acts: she commits adultery, has a bath, and says, “But I haven't done anything wrong!” 
In the ninth month of the fifth year that Jehoiakim was king of Judah, the people fasted to gain the LORD's favour. The fast was kept by all who lived in Jerusalem and by all who came there from the towns of Judah. 
Benjamin's sons were Bela, Becher, Ashbel, Gera, Naaman, Ehi, Rosh, Muppim, Huppim, and Ard. 
The LORD has promised that he himself will be a wall of fire round the city to protect it and that he will live there in all his glory.” 
I call to you, O God, but you never answer; : and when I pray, you pay no attention. 
“Israel's sin and guilt are on record, and the records are safely stored away. 
but a curse, if you disobey these commands and turn away to worship other gods that you have never worshipped before. 
I am your servant; give me understanding, : so that I may know your teachings. 
Jacob came with all his people to Luz, which is now known as Bethel, in the land of Canaan. 
On the east side, where the entrance was, the enclosure was also 22 metres wide. 
The following temple guards lived in Jerusalem: Shallum, Akkub, Talmon, and Ahiman. Shallum was their leader. 
They shamelessly keep on making me angry. They offer pagan sacrifices in sacred gardens and burn incense on pagan altars. 
Sing praise to God; : sing praise to our king! 
Being denied hospitality or having a moneylender hound you — these are hard things for any sensitive person to endure.
In your sight the whole world is a grain of sand, barely heavy enough to tip a pair of scales, a drop of dew on the ground in the morning. 
Then Moses said to the people, “Obey all the laws that I am teaching you, and you will live and occupy the land which the LORD, the God of your ancestors, is giving you. 
Stop being afraid of the king of Babylonia. I am with you, and I will rescue you from his power. 
But Rebecca's brother and her mother said, “Let her stay with us a week or ten days, and then she may go.” 
The walls of the Temple had openings in them, narrower on the outside than on the inside. 
In the evening they cause terror, but by morning they are gone. That is the fate of everyone who plunders our land.
If you offer as a sacrifice an animal that you have obtained dishonestly, it is defective and unacceptable. 
“What did he do to you?” they asked. “How did he cure you of your blindness?” 
They crush your people, LORD; : they oppress those who belong to you. 
As Jesus walked along the shore of Lake Galilee, he saw two brothers who were fishermen, Simon (called Peter) and his brother Andrew, catching fish in the lake with a net. 
Throughout all Judah, King Hezekiah did what was right and what was pleasing to the LORD his God. 
Then some people brought to Jesus a man who was blind and could not talk because he had a demon. Jesus healed the man, so that he was able to talk and see. 
Where are the kings of the cities of Hamath, Arpad, Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivvah?” 
Peter and John were still speaking to the people when some priests, the officer in charge of the temple guards, and some Sadducees arrived. 
Rock-badgers: they are not strong either, but they make their homes among the rocks. 
A gracious wife is her husband's delight; her abilities make him a stronger man.  
For I tell you that Christ's life of service was on behalf of the Jews, to show that God is faithful, to make his promises to their ancestors come true, 
We'll condemn them to a shameful death. After all, they say that God will protect them.” 
In this way he will perform the ritual to purify the Most Holy Place from the uncleanness of the people of Israel and from all their sins. He must do this to the Tent, because it stands in the middle of the camp, which is ritually unclean. 
Then at Peor, God's people joined in the worship of Baal, : and ate sacrifices offered to dead gods. 
“How can this be?” asked Nicodemus. 
How can God's temple come to terms with pagan idols? For we are the temple of the living God! As God himself has said: : “I will make my home with my people : and live among them; : I will be their God, : and they shall be my people.” 
Why are human beings so important to you? : Why pay attention to what they do? 
The LORD, the God of Israel, told me to go and say to King Zedekiah of Judah, “I, the LORD, will hand this city over to the king of Babylonia, and he will burn it down. 
I will not interfere when my treasured Temple is profaned, when robbers break into it and defile it. 
Take your part in suffering, as a loyal soldier of Christ Jesus. 
So a man who prays or proclaims God's message in public worship with his head covered disgraces Christ. 
The other members of the tribe belonged to the following seven clans: Michael, Meshullam, Sheba, Jorai, Jacan, Zia, and Eber. 
You think the thick clouds keep him from seeing, : as he walks on the dome of the sky. 
We encouraged you, we comforted you, and we kept urging you to live the kind of life that pleases God, who calls you to share in his own Kingdom and glory. 
I will always thank you, God, for what you have done; : in the presence of your people : I will proclaim that you are good.
Let all who worship him say, : “His love is eternal.” 
saying to them, “It is written in the Scriptures that God said, ‘My Temple will be a house of prayer.’ But you have turned it into a hideout for thieves!” 
will receive much more in this present age and eternal life in the age to come.” 
All who see you will shrink back. : They will say, ‘Nineveh lies in ruins! : Who has any sympathy for her? : Who will want to comfort her?’ ” 
Stay in that same house, eating and drinking whatever they offer you, for workers should be given their pay. Don't move round from one house to another.  
He said, “God has made me forget all my sufferings and all my father's family”; so he named his first son Manasseh.  
They will sing this funeral song for you: : The famous city is destroyed! : Her ships have been swept from the seas. : The people of this city ruled the seas : And terrified all who lived on the coast. 
Everything else that Amaziah did is recorded in The History of the Kings of Judah. 
Tell him to give the money to the men who are in charge of the repairs in the Temple. They are to pay 
Father! Give me glory in your presence now, the same glory I had with you before the world was made. 
Listen now to my prayer and to the prayers of all your other servants who want to honour you. Give me success today and make the emperor merciful to me.” : In those days I was the emperor's wine steward.
You yourself will live to a ripe old age, die in peace, and be buried. 
King Hezekiah took the letter from the messengers and read it. Then he went to the Temple, placed the letter there in the presence of the LORD, 
When the festival was over, they started back home, but the boy Jesus stayed in Jerusalem. His parents did not know this; 
Please tell me how you managed to do this.” : While all the people were gathered round, Judith told him everything that she had done from the day she left the town until that moment. 
All this wisdom comes from the LORD Almighty. The plans God makes are wise, and they always succeed!
The Sovereign LORD said, “The people of Edom took cruel revenge on Judah, and that revenge has brought lasting guilt on Edom. 
“But if you disobey the LORD your God and do not faithfully keep all his commands and laws that I am giving you today, all these evil things will happen to you
He totally destroyed the countries of Libya and Lydia, then plundered all the people of Rassis and the Ishmaelites who lived on the edge of the desert, south of the land of the Chelleans. 
Moab, remember how you jeered at the people of Israel? You treated them as though they had been caught with a gang of robbers. 
You will conquer all their beautiful fortified cities; you will cut down all their fruit trees, stop all their springs, and ruin all their fertile fields by covering them with stones.” 
How, then, shall we escape if we pay no attention to such a great salvation? The Lord himself first announced this salvation, and those who heard him proved to us that it is true. 
A third of your people will die from sickness and hunger in the city; a third will be cut down by swords outside the city; and I will scatter the last third to the winds and pursue them with a sword. 
If the one who was hit has to stay in bed, but later is able to get up and walk outside with the help of a stick, the one who hit them is to pay for their lost time and take care of them until they get well. 
Many of them believed his message and were baptized, and about 3,000 people were added to the group that day. 
: Jedaiah son of Joiarib, and Jachin. 
We praise you, LORD, for your great strength! : We will sing and praise your power.
to the cities of Berothah and Sibraim (they are located between the territory of the kingdom of Damascus and that of the kingdom of Hamath), and to the city of Ticon (located by the border of the district of Hauran). 
In the assembly of all his people : I will give him what I have promised. 
In the dawn of that day the stars sang together, : and the heavenly beings shouted for joy. 
When Daniel learnt that the order had been signed, he went home. In an upstairs room of his house there were windows that faced towards Jerusalem. There, just as he had always done, he knelt down at the open windows and prayed to God three times a day. 
Who, O God, will take me into the fortified city? : Who will lead me to Edom? 
When you began to plead with God, he answered you. He loves you, and so I have come to tell you the answer. Now pay attention while I explain the vision. 
The one who burns them must wash his clothes and have a bath before he returns to camp. 
To half the tribe of Manasseh I assigned the rest of Gilead and also all of Bashan, where Og had ruled, that is, the entire Argob region.” : (Bashan was known as the land of the Rephaim. 
and carried it to the Temple. The Levites and the priests also moved the Tent of the LORD's presence and all its equipment to the Temple. 
May they all be like grass growing on the housetops, : which dries up before it can grow; 
If you really do as I have commanded, then David's descendants will continue to be kings. And they, together with their officials and their people, will continue to pass through the gates of this palace in chariots and on horses. 
After Jesus said this, he went on ahead of them to Jerusalem. 
I will let you live fifteen years longer. I will rescue you and this city of Jerusalem from the emperor of Assyria. I will defend this city, for the sake of my own honour and because of the promise I made to my servant David.” 
Attack it from every side and break open the places where its grain is stored! Pile up the loot like piles of grain! Destroy the country! Leave nothing at all! 
The LORD says, “I am bringing a destructive wind against Babylonia and its people. 
The nation of Israel is like a mighty lion: : It doesn't rest until it has torn and devoured, : Until it has drunk the blood of those it has killed.” 
So I made a promise in the desert that I would not take them to the land I had given them, a rich and fertile land, the finest land of all. 
But on the following day Hazael took a blanket, soaked it in water, and smothered the king. : And Hazael succeeded Benhadad as king of Syria. 
But how can I get the money back from Gabael? We have never even met each other. How can I prove to him who I am, so that he will trust me and give me the money? Besides that, I don't know how to get to Media.” 
He is not afraid of a rushing river; : he is calm when the Jordan dashes in his face. 
Joshua burnt Ai and left it in ruins. It is still like that today. 
In past times human beings were not told this secret, but God has revealed it now by the Spirit to his holy apostles and prophets. 
Their speech is wicked and full of lies; : they no longer do what is wise and good. 
Let God's people rejoice in their triumph : and sing joyfully all night long. 
The time has come for judgement to begin, and God's own people are the first to be judged. If it starts with us, how will it end with those who do not believe the Good News from God? 
Wicked people and liars have attacked me. : They tell lies about me 
So they said to Aaron, ‘Make us some gods who will lead us. We do not know what has happened to that man Moses, who brought us out of Egypt.’ 
Hold on to your wisdom and insight, my child. Never let them get away from you. 
He lets the rain pour from the clouds : in showers for the whole human race. 
When unrighteous people commit sin, they will be hunted down, not by the power of whatever thing they swear by, but by the punishment that sinners deserve.
After Hezekiah recovered from his illness, he wrote this song of praise
Then the officials went to the king and said, “This man must be put to death. By talking like this he is making the soldiers in the city lose their courage, and he is doing the same thing to everyone else left in the city. He is not trying to help the people; he only wants to hurt them.” 
Then the three disciples saw Moses and Elijah talking with Jesus. 
Then King Ahab ordered one of his officers, “Arrest Micaiah and take him to Amon, the governor of the city, and to Prince Joash. 
You are fair and honest in your judgements, : and you have judged in my favour. 
A good life lasts only a short time, but a good reputation will last for ever. 
not even that of their father, mother, brother, or sister. 
He has humbled those who were proud; : he destroyed the strong city they lived in, : and sent its walls crashing into the dust. 
The people of Judah and Israel were as numerous as the grains of sand on the seashore; they ate and drank, and were happy. 
a herald announced in a loud voice, “People of all nations, races, and languages! 
The Assyrian official went on, “Or will you tell me that you are relying on the LORD your God? It was the LORD's shrines and altars that Hezekiah destroyed when he told the people of Judah and Jerusalem to worship at one altar only. 
they will be unkind, merciless, slanderers, violent, and fierce; they will hate the good; 
They answered him, “What do you mean, sir, by talking like this? We swear that we have done no such thing. 
“But what crime has he committed?” Pilate asked. : They shouted all the louder, “Crucify him!” 
Following the example of his father, he did what was pleasing to the LORD. 
We must let them live because of our promise; if we don't, God will punish us. 
and camped by the road on Mount Hachilah. David was still in the wilderness, and when he learnt that Saul had come to look for him, 
who has gone to heaven and is at the right-hand side of God, ruling over all angels and heavenly authorities and powers.
Jonathan answered, “God forbid that you should die! My father tells me everything he does, important or not, and he would not hide this from me. It isn't true!” 
I will slaughter your cattle at every water hole. There will be no people or cattle to muddy the water any more. 
Then the LORD spoke to me again, and said, 
You go on to the festival. I am not going  to this festival, because the right time has not come for me.”  
Obey the LORD your God and worship only him. Be faithful to him and make your promises in his name alone. 
then you are to select three more cities. (He will give you this land if you do everything that I command you today and if you love the LORD your God and live according to his teachings.) 
When they drink from it, they will stagger and go out of their minds because of the war I am sending against them.” 
He took me to the entrance of the outer courtyard and showed me a hole in the wall. 
Then Moses, accompanied by the leaders of Israel, went to Dathan and Abiram. 
Without such people there could be no cities; no one would live or visit where these services were not available. 
Take advantage of opportunities, but guard yourself against evil. Don't under-rate yourself. 
There Judah met a young Canaanite woman whose father was named Shua. He married her, 
“So now, my people, in the presence of our God and of this assembly of all Israel, the LORD's people, I charge you to obey carefully everything that the LORD our God has commanded us, so that you may continue to possess this good land and so that you may hand it on to succeeding generations for ever.” 
Let your broken heart show your sorrow; : tearing your clothes is not enough.” : Come back to the LORD your God. : He is kind and full of mercy; : he is patient and keeps his promise; : he is always ready to forgive and not punish. 
If the offering is bread cooked in a pan, it is to be made of flour and olive oil. 
“Go to your neighbours and borrow as many empty jars as you can,” Elisha told her. 
Then the sailors tried to escape from the ship; they lowered the boat into the water and pretended that they were going to put out some anchors from the front of the ship. 
Do those things that will show that you have turned from your sins. And don't start saying among yourselves that Abraham is your ancestor. I tell you that God can take these stones and make descendants for Abraham! 
Then I said, “Sovereign LORD, you have completely deceived the people of Jerusalem! You have said there would be peace, but a sword is at their throats.” 
They have almost succeeded in killing me, : but I have not neglected your commands. 
Find out if there is any evil in me : and guide me in the everlasting way.
With a loud cry the members of the Council covered their ears with their hands. Then they all rushed at him at once, 
She then took the head out of the food bag and showed it to the people. “Here,” she said, “is the head of Holofernes, the general of the Assyrian army, and here is the mosquito net from his bed, where he lay in a drunken stupor. The Lord has used a woman to kill him. 
While they were eating, Jesus took a piece of bread, gave a prayer of thanks, broke it, and gave it to his disciples. “Take and eat it,” he said; “this is my body.” 
There they preached the Good News. 
They will be famous among the nations; : Everyone who sees them will know : That they are a people whom I have blessed.” 
an elder must be blameless; he must have only one wife, and his children must be believers and not have the reputation of being wild or disobedient. 
Many foreign rulers have destroyed my vineyard; : they have trampled down my fields; : they have turned my lovely land into a desert. 
but when it is all over, she leaves you nothing but bitterness and pain. 
Listen to the LORD's case against Israel. : Arise, O LORD, and present your case; let the mountains and the hills hear what you say. 
After recording the exact amount, they would hand the silver over to the men in charge of the work in the Temple, and these would pay the carpenters, the builders, 
Everyone was always praising me, : and my strength never failed me. 
So prophesy to my people Israel and tell them that I, the Sovereign LORD, am going to open their graves. I am going to take them out and bring them back to the land of Israel. 
Jonah went on to tell them that he was running away from the LORD. : The sailors were terrified, and said to him, “That was an awful thing to do!”  
All the Amorite kings west of the Jordan and all the Canaanite kings along the Mediterranean Sea heard that the LORD had dried up the Jordan until the people of Israel had crossed it. They became afraid and lost their courage because of the Israelites. 
Some of the people there became angry and said to one another, “What was the use of wasting the perfume? 
Reuben heard them and tried to save Joseph. “Let's not kill him,” he said. 
While he was still speaking, a cloud appeared and covered them with its shadow; and the disciples were afraid as the cloud came over them. 
Then if they are ashamed of what they have done, explain the plan of the Temple to them: its design, its entrances and exits, its shape, the arrangement of everything, and all its rules and regulations. Write all this down for them so that they can see how everything is arranged and can carry out all the rules. 
If you change, I will let you go on living here in the land which I gave your ancestors as a permanent possession. 
So Saul stopped pursuing David and went to fight the Philistines. That is why that place is called Separation Hill. 
that he was buried and that he was raised to life three days later, as written in the Scriptures; 
As Saul was coming near the city of Damascus, suddenly a light from the sky flashed round him. 
So they came and took hold of the clothing on the corpses and carried them outside the camp, just as Moses had commanded. 
There was no more war until the 35th year of his reign.
A prophet, Jehu son of Hanani, went to meet the king and said to him, “Do you think it is right to help those who are wicked and to take the side of those who hate the LORD? What you have done has brought the LORD's anger on you. 
Be happy with what you have, even if it isn't very much, and don't listen to anyone who would insult your home and family.  
They all seized Sosthenes, the leader of the synagogue, and beat him in front of the court. But that did not bother Gallio a bit. 
But Esau ran to meet him, threw his arms round him, and kissed him. They were both crying. 
This whole land will be left in ruins and will be a shocking sight, and the neighbouring nations will serve the king of Babylonia for seventy years. 
But this is what I have against you: you tolerate that woman Jezebel, who calls herself a messenger of God. By her teaching she misleads my servants into practising sexual immorality and eating food that has been offered to idols.  
No other prophet has been able to do the great and terrifying things that Moses did in the sight of all Israel.
You hypocrite! First take the log out of your own eye, and then you will be able to see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye. 
The LORD has told the foreign nations to come like wild animals and devour his people. 
The LORD wants weights and measures to be honest and every sale to be fair. 
He warns you not to let Hezekiah deceive you. Hezekiah can't save you. 
But their enemies' pitiful cries of grief echoed everywhere, as they mourned for their dead children. 
Moses and Aaron went into the Tent of the LORD's presence, and when they came out, they blessed the people, and the dazzling light of the LORD's presence appeared to all the people. 
Once more David called together the best soldiers in Israel, a total of 30,000 men, 
“I will bless them and let them live round my sacred hill. There I will bless them with showers of rain when they need it. 
He said this, not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief. He carried the money bag and would help himself from it. 
Just ask them, and they will tell you. We have come on a feast day, and David asks you to receive us kindly. Please give what you can to us your servants and to your dear friend David.” 
Instead, be holy in all that you do, just as God who called you is holy. 
The sight was so terrifying that Moses said, “I am trembling and afraid!” 
After Jesus rose from death early on Sunday, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had driven out seven demons. 
When Amaziah returned from defeating the Edomites, he brought their idols back with him, set them up, worshipped them, and burnt incense to them. 
They cut off Saul's head, stripped off his armour, and sent messengers with them throughout Philistia to tell the good news to their idols and to their people. 
Who is greater, the one who sits down to eat or the one who serves? The one who sits down, of course. But I am among you as one who serves. 
From that land he went to Assyria and built the cities of Nineveh, Rehoboth Ir, Calah, 
At that time David was on a fortified hill, and a group of Philistines had occupied Bethlehem. 
But if he will not listen to you, take one or two other persons with you, so that ‘every accusation may be upheld by the testimony of two or more witnesses,’ as the scripture says.  
The LORD spoke to the prophet Jehu son of Hanani and gave him this message for Baasha
I will see to it that you will not prosper, but will be destroyed. All of you will die, either in war or of disease, until not one of you is left. 
“Sir,” the woman said, “you haven't got a bucket, and the well is deep. Where would you get that life-giving water? 
For this is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says: ‘The bowl will not run out of flour or the jar run out of oil before the day that I, the LORD, send rain.’ ” 
Then Holofernes passed through the Valley of Jezreel near Dothan, which faces the main ridge of the mountains of Judah, 
Saul's men on watch at Gibeah in the territory of Benjamin saw the Philistines running in confusion. 
The people of those cities ignored Wisdom and could not tell right from wrong. Not only that, but the remains of their cities still remind us of the foolish way they lived, so that their failure can never be forgotten. 
Because of this, disaster will strike them without warning, and they will be fatally wounded. 
and the angel told me to proclaim what the LORD Almighty had said: “I have a deep love and concern for Jerusalem, my holy city, 
Now we know that everything in the Law applies to those who live under the Law, in order to stop all human excuses and bring the whole world under God's judgement. 
So she set out, and went to Mount Carmel, where Elisha was. : Elisha saw her coming while she was still some distance away, and said to his servant Gehazi, “Look — there comes the woman from Shunem! 
unreliable people who cannot be trusted. 
“My food,” Jesus said to them, “is to obey the will of the one who sent me and to finish the work he gave me to do.  
Are you coming to accuse me, God? : If you do, I am ready to be silent and die. 
or let orphans go hungry while I ate. 
May their eyes be blinded so that they cannot see; : and make them bend under their troubles at all times.” 
I have left the blood there, where it cannot be hidden, where it demands angry revenge.” 
Ahab said to Obadiah, “Let us go and look at every spring and every riverbed in the land to see if we can find enough grass to keep the horses and mules alive. Maybe we won't have to kill any of our animals.” 
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all.
Jephthah sent messengers back to the king of Ammon 
They sang a new song: : “You are worthy to take the scroll : and to break open its seals. : For you were killed, and by your sacrificial death you bought for God : people from every tribe, language, nation, and race. 
He will not accept any payment; no amount of gifts will satisfy his anger.
But neither Zedekiah nor his officials nor the people obeyed the message which the LORD had given me. 
The LORD knows what they think; : he knows how senseless their reasoning is. 
The people answered, “No, you have not cheated us or oppressed us; you have not taken anything from anyone.” 
Let us make an agreement that there will be intermarriage between our people and yours. 
eighty men arrived from Shechem, Shiloh, and Samaria. They had shaved off their beards, torn their clothes, and gashed themselves. They were taking corn and incense to offer in the Temple. 
and took him first to Annas. He was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was High Priest that year. 
The cypress trees and the cedars of Lebanon rejoice over the fallen king, because there is no one to cut them down, now that he is gone! 
He heals the broken-hearted : and bandages their wounds. 
When Jacob returned from Mesopotamia, God appeared to him again and blessed him. 
When Abimelech and his men saw Gaal come out and stand at the city gate, they got up from their hiding places. 
So Joseph took it, wrapped it in a new linen sheet, 
Although Joseph recognized his brothers, they did not recognize him. 
As Paul defended himself in this way, Festus shouted at him, “You are mad, Paul! Your great learning is driving you mad!” 
How, then, can you be proud? On the contrary, you should be filled with sadness, and the man who has done such a thing should be expelled from your fellowship. 
The prophet answered, “Even if you gave me half your wealth, I would not go with you or eat or drink anything with you. 
Then all the men who knew that their wives offered sacrifices to other gods, and all the women who were standing there, including the Israelites who lived in southern Egypt — a large crowd in all — said to me, 
We see, then, that they were not able to enter the land, because they did not believe.
In the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy God sent the angel Gabriel to a town in Galilee named Nazareth. 
Your enemies have shouted in triumph in your Temple; : they have placed their flags there as signs of victory. 
Simon saw that the Spirit had been given to the believers when the apostles placed their hands on them. So he offered money to Peter and John, 
After Abimelech's death Tola, the son of Puah and grandson of Dodo, came to free Israel. He was from the tribe of Issachar and lived at Shamir in the hill country of Ephraim. 
The LORD said to Moses, “Take some of the leaders of Israel with you, and go on ahead of the people. Take along the stick with which you struck the Nile. 
Rouse yourself, God, and defend your cause! : Remember that godless people laugh at you all day long. 
With the blue, purple, and red wool they made the magnificent garments which the priests were to wear when they served in the Holy Place. They made the priestly garments for Aaron, as the LORD had commanded Moses. 
Ezra the priest stood up and spoke to them. He said, “You have been faithless and have brought guilt on Israel by marrying foreign women. 
From the time John preached his message until this very day the Kingdom of heaven has suffered violent attacks,  and violent men try to seize it.  
No king or ruler on earth can accuse you of punishing those people unfairly. 
Anab, Eshtemoa, Anim, 
And when I began to speak, the Holy Spirit came down on them just as on us at the beginning. 
Their food is the sacrifices offered to the Lord; the Lord gave this to Aaron and his descendants. 
That is why they stand before God's throne and serve him day and night in his temple. He who sits on the throne will protect them with his presence. 
When Tobias and Sarah were alone behind closed doors, Tobias got up from the bed and said to his wife, “Get up, dear. Let's pray for the Lord to be merciful and protect us.” 
In mercy the angel will say, “Release them! : They are not to go down to the world of the dead. : Here is the ransom to set them free.” 
I will call the grave my father, : and the worms that eat me : I will call my mother and my sisters. 
But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ! 
On his way back to the city early next morning, Jesus was hungry. 
The young soldiers led the attack, followed by the Israelite army, 
Meddlers have caused faithful wives to be divorced, robbed of everything they had worked for. 
The king was sad, but because of the promise he had made in front of all his guests he gave orders that her wish be granted. 
A person who gets rich without sinfully chasing after money is fortunate. 
Then we will shout for joy over your victory : and celebrate your triumph by praising our God. : May the LORD answer all your requests. 
In the eighteenth year of his reign, after he had purified the land and the Temple by ending pagan worship, King Josiah sent three men to repair the Temple of the LORD God: Shaphan son of Azaliah, Maaseiah, the governor of Jerusalem, and Joah son of Joahaz, a high official. 
“After the LORD your God has destroyed the people whose land he is giving you and after you have taken their cities and houses and settled there, 
When the waters saw you, O God, they were afraid, : and the depths of the sea trembled. 
kings will camp there with their armies. They will pitch their tents round the city, and they will each camp wherever they want. 
Then he set up military camps in their territory, and they became his subjects and paid taxes to him. The LORD made David victorious everywhere. 
So Tobias went out to look for such a person. But he quickly returned, shouting, “Father! Father!” : “Yes, what is it?” I asked. : “One of our people has just been murdered! Someone strangled him and threw his body into the market-place.” 
Be sure that you obey all the laws that he has given you. 
Can you fill his hide with fishing spears : or pierce his head with a harpoon? 
I was ahead of most fellow-Jews of my age in my practice of the Jewish religion, and was much more devoted to the traditions of our ancestors. 
But he said, “What I was able to do is nothing compared with what you have done. Even the little that you men of Ephraim did is worth more than what my whole clan has done. 
Finally, we could not bear it any longer. So we decided to stay on alone in Athens 
Give doctors the honour they deserve, for the Lord gave them their work to do.  
Paul looked straight at the Council and said, “My fellow-Israelites! My conscience is perfectly clear about the way in which I have lived before God to this very day.” 
The other events of Jotham's reign, his wars, and his policies, are all recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel and Judah. 
When Samuel caught sight of Saul, the LORD said to him, “This is the man I told you about. He will rule my people.” 
So the officer went off with his men and brought the apostles back. They did not use force, however, because they were afraid that the people might stone them. 
Praise the LORD, you heavenly beings; : praise his glory and power. 
He was humble and walked the path of obedience all the way to death — : his death on the cross. 
Then Elijah said to the people, “Come closer to me,” and they all gathered round him. He set about repairing the altar of the LORD which had been torn down. 
One day as we were going to the place of prayer, we were met by a young servant woman who had an evil spirit that enabled her to predict the future. She earned a lot of money for her owners by telling fortunes. 
Bigvai — 2,056 
I went to the angel and asked him to give me the little scroll. He said to me, “Take it and eat it; it will turn sour in your stomach, but in your mouth it will be sweet as honey.” 
What, then, was the purpose of the Law? It was added in order to show what wrongdoing is, and it was meant to last until the coming of Abraham's descendant, to whom the promise was made. The Law was handed down by angels, with a man acting as a go-between. 
Hormah, Arad, 
If it were an enemy that mocked me, : I could endure it; : if it were an opponent boasting over me, : I could hide myself from him. 
Someone guilty of murder is digging his own grave as fast as he can. Don't try to stop him. 
Jesus called his twelve disciples together and gave them authority to drive out evil spirits and to heal every disease and every sickness. 
Do not eat these animals or even touch their dead bodies; they are unclean. 
and they set out together. When they arrived at the Jordan, they began to work. 
While Isaac was talking to Esau, Rebecca was listening. So when Esau went out to hunt, 
I was left there alone, watching this amazing vision. I had no strength left, and my face was so changed that no one could have recognized me. 
And so we have met together and have all agreed to choose some messengers and send them to you. They will go with our dear friends Barnabas and Paul, 
Then Ahimaaz son of Zadok said to Joab, “Let me run to the king with the good news that the LORD has saved him from his enemies.” 
They served other gods that they had never worshipped before, gods that the LORD had forbidden them to worship. 
Jephthah, a brave soldier from Gilead, was the son of a prostitute. His father Gilead 
This, then, is what I command you: love one another. 
“I will fill the descendants of David and the other people of Jerusalem with the spirit of mercy and the spirit of prayer. They will look at the one whom they stabbed to death, and they will mourn for him like those who mourn for an only child. They will mourn bitterly, like those who have lost their firstborn son. 
Some were mocked and whipped, and others were put in chains and taken off to prison. 
‘From the time I brought my people out of Egypt, I have not chosen any city in all the land of Israel in which a temple should be built where I would be worshipped. But I chose you, David, to rule my people.’ ” 
The following account gives the names of the places where the Israelites set up camp after they left Egypt in their tribes under the leadership of Moses and Aaron. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “when the Israelites were living in their land, they defiled it by the way they lived and acted. I regarded their behaviour as being as ritually unclean as a woman is during her monthly period.  
The day after tomorrow your absence will be noticed even more; so go to the place where you hid the other time, and hide behind the pile of stones there.  
On all the hills and under every shady tree they put up stone pillars and images of the goddess Asherah, 
When you set them free, do not send them away empty-handed. 
For this reason, when Christ was about to come into the world, he said to God: : “You do not want sacrifices and offerings, : but you have prepared a body for me. 
You can be sure that on the Judgement Day God will show more mercy to Sodom than to you!” 
His heart is made of ashes. His hope is cheaper than dirt. His life is not worth as much as his clay, 
Jesus said, “My kingdom does not belong to this world; if my kingdom belonged to this world, my followers would fight to keep me from being handed over to the Jewish authorities. No, my kingdom does not belong here!” 
“Is there a limit to my power?” the LORD answered. “You will soon see whether what I have said will happen or not!” 
Do I imply, then, that an idol or the food offered to it really amounts to anything? 
Then Moses and the Israelites sang this song to the LORD: : “I will sing to the LORD, because he has won a glorious victory; : he has thrown the horses and their riders into the sea. 
Then another angel, who is in charge of the fire, came from the altar. He shouted in a loud voice to the angel who had the sharp sickle, “Use your sickle, and cut the grapes from the vineyard of the earth, because the grapes are ripe!” 
I give up; I am tired of living. : Leave me alone. My life makes no sense. 
“Do not neglect the Levites who live in your towns; they have no property of their own. 
Holofernes went down into the plains round Damascus during the wheat harvest, burnt all the fields, slaughtered the flocks and herds, looted the towns, devastated the entire countryside, and killed all the young men. 
Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai was in command of the tribe of Simeon, 
So Moses and Eleazar took the gold to the Tent, so that the LORD would protect the people of Israel.
to punish the nations as God has commanded. : This is the victory of God's people. : Praise the LORD!
a people dedicated to me alone, and you will serve me as priests.” 
As for us, our life is like grass. : We grow and flourish like a wild flower; 
the son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmadam, the son of Er, 
and when your cattle and sheep, your silver and gold, and all your other possessions have increased, 
He will go back by the road on which he came, without entering this city. I, the LORD, have spoken. 
In addition, he shall offer loaves of bread baked with yeast. 
My promise is true, : and it will not be changed. : I solemnly promise by all that I am: : Everyone will come and kneel before me : and vow to be loyal to me. 
and Segub had a son named Jair. Jair ruled 23 cities in the territory of Gilead. 
Judge in my favour; you know the wrongs done against me. 
With their shameless carousing they are like dirty spots in your fellowship meals. They take care only of themselves. They are like clouds carried along by the wind, but bringing no rain. They are like trees that bear no fruit, even in autumn, trees that have been pulled up by the roots and are completely dead. 
The next day Moses said to the people, “You have committed a terrible sin. But now I will again go up the mountain to the LORD; perhaps I can obtain forgiveness for your sin.” 
Then Moses and the seventy leaders of Israel went back to camp. 
Then David went out after him and called to him, “Your Majesty!” Saul turned round, and David bowed down to the ground in respect 
This is the story of the revolt. : Solomon was filling in the land on the east side of Jerusalem and repairing the city walls. 
The LORD sent the prophet Nathan to David. Nathan went to him and said, “There were two men who lived in the same town; one was rich and the other poor. 
and it was also by water, the water of the flood, that the old world was destroyed. 
Old people have wisdom, : but God has wisdom and power. : Old people have insight; : God has insight and power to act. 
Jesus knew what they were saying, so he said to them, “Why are you bothering this woman? It is a fine and beautiful thing that she has done for me.  
So Ebedmelech went there and said to the king, 
The widow went and did as Elijah had told her, and all of them had enough food for many days. 
Stop your noisy songs; I do not want to listen to your harps. 
He sent his father ten donkeys loaded with the best Egyptian goods and ten donkeys loaded with corn, bread, and other food for the journey. 
I was living in peace, : but God took me by the throat : and battered me and crushed me. : God uses me for target practice 
Jerusalem will be rebuilt : and will be his home for ever. : “Jerusalem, how happy I will be : when my descendants can see your splendour : and give thanks to the King of Heaven. : “Your gates will be built with sapphires and emeralds, : and all your walls with precious stones. : Your towers will be made of gold, : and their fortifications of pure gold. 
extended up to Beth Hoglah, and went north of the ridge overlooking the Jordan Valley. Then it went up to the Stone of Bohan (Bohan was a son of Reuben), 
By God's grace I have won the favour of the emperor, of his counsellors, and of all his powerful officials; the LORD my God has given me courage, and I have been able to persuade many of the heads of the clans of Israel to return with me.”
you say, ‘I am innocent; surely the LORD is no longer angry with me.’ But I, the LORD, will punish you because you deny that you have sinned. 
Yet now you are doing even more; you have made promises about my descendants in the years to come, and you, LORD God, are already treating me like a great man.  
But the pagan places of worship were not destroyed, and the people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense there. It was Jotham who built the North Gate of the Temple. 
If a rich person wrongs someone, he can afford to add insult to injury; but if a poor person is wronged, he is forced to apologize for himself. 
and on the way Elijah said to Elisha, “Now stay here; the LORD has ordered me to go to Bethel.” : But Elisha answered, “I swear by my loyalty to the living LORD and to you that I will not leave you.” So they went on to Bethel. 
There was a man named Jabez, who was the most respected member of his family. His mother had given him the name Jabez, because his birth had been very painful. 
I am telling you the truth: a grain of wheat remains no more than a single grain unless it is dropped into the ground and dies. If it does die, then it produces many grains.  
I said, ‘You have now come to the hill country of the Amorites, which the LORD our God, the God of our ancestors, is giving us.’
Then the LORD asked Abraham, “Why did Sarah laugh and say, ‘Can I really have a child when I am so old?’ 
Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel, Aaron's uncle, and said to them, “Come here and carry your cousins' bodies away from the sacred Tent and put them outside the camp.” 
Then, to represent a siege, put trenches, earthworks, camps, and battering rams all round it. 
For I want very much to see you, in order to share a spiritual blessing with you to make you strong. 
My enemies turn back when you appear; : they fall down and die. 
Then God opened her eyes, and she saw a well. She went and filled the leather bag with water and gave some to the boy. 
The next day John saw Jesus coming to him, and said, “There is the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world! 
If they are taken away into captivity by their enemies, I will order them to be put to death. I am determined to destroy them, not to help them.” 
But who can eat tasteless, unsalted food? : What flavour is there in the white of an egg? 
In the same way I have made a covenant with my servant David that he would always have a descendant to be king, and I have made a covenant with the priests from the tribe of Levi that they would always serve me; and those covenants can never be broken. 
The rest of the wood he makes into an idol, and then he bows down and worships it. He prays to it and says, “You are my god — save me!” 
“When you come into the land that the LORD your God is giving you, don't follow the disgusting practices of the nations that are there. 
Hivites, Arkites, Sinites, 
We have sinned against the LORD, so now we must endure his anger for a while. But in the end he will defend us and right the wrongs that have been done to us. He will bring us out to the light; we will live to see him save us. 
So he said, “There was once a man of high rank who was going to a country far away to be made king, after which he planned to come back home.  
He will take the pieces left over and use them as firewood to cook a meal that he can sit down to and enjoy. 
The LORD says, “I will stir up civil war in Egypt and turn brother against brother and neighbour against neighbour. Rival cities will fight each other, and rival kings will struggle for power. 
and constant arguments from people whose minds do not function and who no longer have the truth. They think that religion is a way to become rich. 
The men of Ai chased them from the city gate as far as some quarries and killed about 36 of them on the way down the hill. Then the Israelites lost their courage and were afraid. 
What are these ships that skim along like clouds, : Like doves returning home? 
Your people who were born in exile : will one day say to you, : ‘This land is too small — : we need more room to live in!’ 
I dress myself in clothes of mourning, : and they laugh at me. 
The sun was rising when Lot reached Zoar. 
But if the bull had been in the habit of attacking people and its owner had been warned, but did not keep it penned up — then if it gores someone to death, it is to be stoned, and its owner is to be put to death also. 
King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia invaded Judah, captured Jehoiakim, and took him to Babylonia in chains. 
I grew tall, like the cedars in Lebanon, : like the cypresses on Mount Hermon, 
Hamor said to him, “My son Shechem has fallen in love with your daughter; please let him marry her. 
Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away. 
for the Lord will quickly settle his full account with the world.” 
It was on the twelfth day of the first month that we left the Ahava Canal to go to Jerusalem. Our God was with us and protected us from enemy attacks and from ambush as we travelled. 
Now, on the day when the dead rise to life, whose wife will she be? All of them had married her.” 
When that happens, I will become angry with them; I will abandon them, and they will be destroyed. Many terrible disasters will come upon them, and then they will realize that these things are happening to them because I, their God, am no longer with them. 
“When your enemies are besieging your towns, you will become so desperate for food that you will even eat the children that the LORD your God has given you. 
The Sovereign LORD said, “On the first day of the first month you are to sacrifice a bull without any defects and purify the Temple. 
Since we are his children, we will possess the blessings he keeps for his people, and we will also possess with Christ what God has kept for him; for if we share Christ's suffering, we will also share his glory. 
Your rule is eternal, : and you are king for ever. : The LORD is faithful to his promises, : and he is merciful in all his acts. 
All these promises are made to us, my dear friends. So then, let us purify ourselves from everything that makes body or soul unclean, and let us be completely holy by living in awe of God. 
don't hide yourself from me!” : Don't be angry with me; : don't turn your servant away. : You have been my help; : don't leave me, don't abandon me, : O God, my saviour. 
Many nations joined forces with King Arphaxad — all the people who lived in the mountains, those who lived along the rivers Tigris, Euphrates, and Hydaspes, as well as those who lived in the plain ruled by King Arioch of Elam. Many nations joined this Chelodite alliance. 
Remember the angels who did not stay within the limits of their proper authority, but abandoned their own dwelling place: they are bound with eternal chains in the darkness below, where God is keeping them for that great Day on which they will be condemned. 
Let the desert and its towns praise God; : let the people of Kedar praise him! : Let those who live in the city of Sela : shout for joy from the tops of the mountains! 
After thinking it over, he made two bull calves of gold and said to his people, “You have been going long enough to Jerusalem to worship. People of Israel, here are your gods who brought you out of Egypt!” 
In the eighth month of the second year that Darius was emperor of Persia, the LORD gave this message to the prophet Zechariah, the son of Berechiah and grandson of Iddo. 
Are you as strong as I am? : Can your voice thunder as loud as mine? 
The life of every person belongs to me, the life of the parent as well as that of the child. The person who sins is the one who will die. 
John answered, “I baptize with water, but among you stands the one you do not know. 
Joab answered, “If you saw him, why didn't you kill him on the spot? I myself would have given you ten pieces of silver and a belt.” 
The name of the Israelite who was killed with the Midianite woman was Zimri son of Salu, the head of a family in the tribe of Simeon. 
On the day when I act, you will overcome the wicked, and they will be like dust under your feet. 
Since Judas was in charge of the money bag, some of the disciples thought that Jesus had told him to go and buy what they needed for the festival, or to give something to the poor. 
Every year we will each contribute five grammes of silver to help pay the expenses of the Temple. 
An artist might want to please some ruler, and so he would use his skill to make the likeness better looking than the actual person. 
He makes them listen to his warning : to turn away from evil. 
but the LORD our God put him in our power, and we killed him, his sons, and all his men. 
Now, in every generation some of your descendants will die a violent death because you have disobeyed me and have taken Uriah's wife. 
Her husband puts his confidence in her, and he will never be poor. 
Then Jesus went to Nazareth, where he had been brought up, and on the Sabbath he went as usual to the synagogue. He stood up to read the Scriptures 
But what does the scripture say? It says, “Send the slave woman and her son away; for the son of the slave woman will not have a part of the father's property along with the son of the free woman.” 
trying to lay traps for him and catch him saying something wrong.
and one kilogramme with each lamb. 
Do not forget your friends or your father's friends. If you are in trouble, don't ask a relative for help; a neighbour near by can help you more than relatives who are far away. 
“Make two more coverings, one of rams' skin dyed red and the other of fine leather, to serve as the outer cover. 
You may be sure that no one who is immoral, indecent, or greedy (for greed is a form of idolatry) will ever receive a share in the Kingdom of Christ and of God. 
Obey my laws and do what I command. I am the LORD your God. 
“I alone am the LORD, : the only one who can save you. 
On one side it faced the space ten metres wide which was alongside the Temple, and on the other side it faced the pavement of the outer court. It was built on three levels, each one set further back than the one below it. 
People whose ancestors had lived in the following towns also returned
and prayed, “O LORD, the God of Israel, enthroned above the winged creatures, you alone are God, ruling all the kingdoms of the world. You created the earth and the sky. 
May all who oppose me and fight against me : be punished like the wicked and the unrighteous. 
If a man or a woman has sexual relations with an animal, he and the animal shall be put to death.  
Now, LORD, look at what is happening to us. Listen to all the things that Sennacherib is saying to insult you, the living God. 
She found the king talking with Gehazi, Elisha's servant; the king wanted to know about Elisha's miracles. 
You will look and see : how the wicked are punished. 
A sound, healthy body and a cheerful attitude are more valuable than gold and jewels. 
For the devout women of the past who placed their hope in God used to make themselves beautiful by submitting to their husbands. 
“You let them conquer nations and kingdoms, : lands that bordered their own. : They conquered the land of Heshbon, where Sihon ruled, : and the land of Bashan, where Og was king. 
and said, “You are to say that his disciples came during the night and stole his body while you were asleep. 
although saddened, we are always glad; we seem poor, but we make many people rich; we seem to have nothing, yet we really possess everything. 
to be self-controlled and pure, and to be good housewives who submit to their husbands, so that no one will speak evil of the message that comes from God. 
I had another vision from the Lord. In it I saw him standing beside a wall that had been built with the help of a plumb line, and there was a plumb line in his hand. 
Manasseh was twelve years old when he became king of Judah, and he ruled in Jerusalem for 55 years. 
When I grew up, I married Anna, a member of my own tribe. We had a son and named him Tobias. 
so that all will honour the Son in the same way as they honour the Father. Whoever does not honour the Son does not honour the Father who sent him. 
Your family will become like the family of King Jeroboam son of Nebat and like the family of King Baasha son of Ahijah, because you have stirred up my anger by leading Israel into sin.’ 
There he went into a cave to spend the night. : Suddenly the LORD spoke to him, “Elijah, what are you doing here?” 
They will find that my opinions show deep insight, and those in power will admire me. 
For the Law of Moses has been read for a very long time in the synagogues every Sabbath, and his words are preached in every town.” 
“On that day someone who is on the roof of his house must not go down into the house to get any belongings; in the same way anyone who is out in the field must not go back to the house.  
so he sent ten young men with orders to go to Carmel, find Nabal, and give him his greetings. 
If you do warn an evil man and he doesn't stop sinning, he will die, still a sinner, but your life will be spared. 
From the Elder — : To the dear Lady and to her children, whom I truly love. And I am not the only one, but all who know the truth love you, 
When you give your daughter in marriage, you have finished a great task, but give her to a sensible man. 
Ehud had made himself a double-edged sword nearly fifty centimetres long. He had it fastened on his right side under his clothes. 
The Syrian army was small, but the LORD let them defeat a much larger Judean army because the people had abandoned him, the LORD God of their ancestors. In this way King Joash was punished. 
They were pleased and offered to pay him money. 
Jesus went back across to the other side of the lake. There at the lakeside a large crowd gathered round him. 
So keep watch over yourselves and over all the flock which the Holy Spirit has placed in your care. Be shepherds of the church of God, which he made his own through the blood of his Son.  
On the hilltops near the road : and at the crossroads she stands. 
I have already said more than I should. 
They will live on the land I gave to my servant Jacob, the land where their ancestors lived. They will live there for ever, and so will their children and all their descendants. A king like my servant David will rule over them for ever. 
“I swear by the living God,” Joab answered, “that if you had not spoken, my men would have kept on chasing you until tomorrow morning.” 
Give at least two warnings to those who cause divisions, and then have nothing more to do with them. 
An Ethiopian named Zerah invaded Judah with an army of a million men and 300 chariots and advanced as far as Mareshah. 
All of this is the land which I, the LORD, promised to give to your ancestors, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and to their descendants. Go and occupy it.’ ” 
For him iron is as flimsy as straw, : and bronze as soft as rotten wood. 
After they left, Ahimaaz and Jonathan came up out of the well and went and reported to King David. They told him what Ahithophel had planned against him and said, “Hurry up and cross the river.” 
When the disciples James and John saw this, they said, “Lord, do you want us to call fire down from heaven to destroy them?” 
“When evening came, the owner told his foreman, ‘Call the workers and pay them their wages, starting with those who were hired last and ending with those who were hired first.’  
and we even saw giants there, the descendants of Anak. We felt as small as grasshoppers, and that is how we must have looked to them.”
In the same way, though we are many, we are one body in union with Christ, and we are all joined to each other as different parts of one body. 
The young Levite agreed to stay with Micah and became like a son to him. 
Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim, 
There were four supports at the bottom corners of each cart, which were of one piece with the cart. 
There is a right time and a right way to do everything, but we know so little! 
he jumped up, stood on his feet, and started walking around. Then he went into the Temple with them, walking and jumping and praising God. 
A woman has to take any man as a husband, but a man must choose his wife carefully. 
While he is young, there are men who take care of him and manage his affairs until the time set by his father. 
As for me, the LORD forbid that I should sin against him by no longer praying for you. Instead, I will teach you what is good and right for you to do. 
My anger burns in me like a fire, : because my enemies disregard your commands. 
Give to good people, but do not help sinners. 
My knees are weak from lack of food; : I am nothing but skin and bones. 
People will come from the towns of Judah and from the villages round Jerusalem; they will come from the territory of Benjamin, from the foothills, from the mountains, and from southern Judah. They will bring to my Temple burnt offerings and sacrifices, grain offerings and incense, as well as thankofferings. 
Then the disciples went back home. 
Sarah was like that; she obeyed Abraham and called him her master. You are now her daughters if you do good and are not afraid of anything. 
Who gave the wild donkeys their freedom? : Who turned them loose and let them roam? 
be sure to obey all the laws that I am giving you today.
The Lord's power is great, and he is honoured by those who are humble. 
Then the king said to the prophet, “Come home with me and have something to eat. I will reward you for what you have done.” 
Arpachshad was the father of Shelah, who was the father of Eber. 
We are frightened and distressed. We long for God to save us from oppression and wrong, but nothing happens. 
Cornelius said, “It was about this time three days ago that I was praying in my house at three o'clock in the afternoon. Suddenly a man dressed in shining clothes stood in front of me 
The LORD rules supreme in heaven, : greater than the roar of the ocean, : more powerful than the waves of the sea. 
When you are in trouble, the Lord will remember your kindness and will help you; your sins will melt away like frost in warm sunshine. 
My enemies make trouble for me all day long; : they are always planning how to hurt me! 
But Asahel would not give up; so Abner, with a backward thrust of his spear, struck him through the belly so that the spear came out at his back. Asahel dropped to the ground dead, and everyone who came to the place where he was lying stopped and stood there. 
If anyone takes human life, he will be punished. I will punish with death any animal that takes a human life. 
You made the night, and in the darkness : all the wild animals come out. 
My God, my God, why have you abandoned me? : I have cried desperately for help, : but still it does not come. 
Someone who borrows money to build a house is just collecting stones for his own tomb. 
If you tell lies in court, you will be punished — there will be no escape. 
Harim — 1,017 
If he wins and kills me, we will be your slaves; but if I win and kill him, you will be our slaves. 
One of the Assyrian officials told them that the emperor wanted to know what made King Hezekiah so confident. 
Jesus replied, “I chose the twelve of you, didn't I? Yet one of you is a devil!”  
he must not be a drunkard or a violent man, but gentle and peaceful; he must not love money; 
“Do not disgrace your daughters by making them temple prostitutes; if you do, you will turn to other gods and the land will be full of immorality. 
You will have sons and daughters, but you will lose them, because they will be taken away as prisoners of war. 
Then they brought in some men to tell lies about him. “This man,” they said, “is always talking against our sacred Temple and the Law of Moses. 
Now go to the main streets and invite to the feast as many people as you find.’  
Shamir, a descendant of Uzziel through Micah; 
Do not make for yourselves gods of silver or gold to be worshipped in addition to me. 
then he died and was buried at Pirathon in the territory of Ephraim in the hill country of the Amalekites.
Obey the laws that I am giving you today. I will drive out the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, as you advance. 
“Give food to the hungry and clothes to people in need. If you are prosperous, give generously, and do it gladly! 
You can go safely on your way and never even stumble. 
She went into Zechariah's house and greeted Elizabeth. 
Joiada son of Paseah and Meshullam son of Besodeiah rebuilt Jeshanah Gate. They put the beams and the gates in place, and put in the bolts and bars for locking the gate. 
He gave Hathach a copy of the proclamation that had been issued in Susa, ordering the destruction of the Jews. Mordecai asked him to take it to Esther, explain the situation to her, and ask her to go and plead with the king and beg him to have mercy on her people. 
“And so I say to you: ask, and you will receive; seek, and you will find; knock, and the door will be opened to you.  
she stood up, called her slave woman, and went down into the house as she always did on Sabbaths and festival days. 
After the birth of Joseph, Jacob said to Laban, “Let me go, so that I can return home. 
Then in the presence of the priests and of all the people who were standing in the Temple, I said to Hananiah
Then we said goodbye to one another, and we went on board the ship while they went back home. 
I'm not going to take my bread and water, and the animals I have slaughtered for my shearers, and give them to people who come from I don't know where!” 
David saw the angel who was killing the people, and said to the LORD, “I am the guilty one. I am the one who did wrong. What have these poor people done? You should punish me and my family.” 
He did this to dedicate the church to God by his word, after making it clean by washing it in water, 
His mother's relatives talked to the men of Shechem about this for him, and the men of Shechem decided to follow Abimelech because he was their relative. 
But a priest's slaves, bought with his own money or born in his home, may eat the food the priest receives. 
And Jesus continued, “You have a clever way of rejecting God's law in order to uphold your own teaching.  
From the basket of bread which has been offered to me, take one loaf of each kind: one loaf made with olive oil and one made without it and one biscuit. 
and had Joseph arrested and put in the prison where the king's prisoners were kept, and there he stayed. 
But it was not the LORD's purpose to destroy Israel completely and for ever, so he rescued them through King Jeroboam II. 
Some time later King Benhadad of Syria led his entire army against Israel and laid siege to the city of Samaria. 
Because of the crowd, however, they could not get the man to him. So they made a hole in the roof right above the place where Jesus was. When they had made an opening, they let the man down, lying on his mat. 
Show me the coin for paying the tax!” : They brought him the coin, 
And if your eye makes you lose your faith, take it out and throw it away! It is better for you to enter life with only one eye than to keep both eyes and be thrown into the fire of hell. 
After she had bathed, she would pray to the Lord God to guide her in her plan to bring victory to Israel. 
The LORD reached down from above and took hold of me; : he pulled me out of the deep waters. 
None of their sins are hidden from him; he is aware of them all.  
that the young women would go away for four days every year to grieve for the daughter of Jephthah of Gilead.
Don't ask the Lord for a place of honour or ask the king for an important position. 
and they said to the woman, “We believe now, not because of what you said, but because we ourselves have heard him, and we know that he really is the Saviour of the world.” 
He took me closer, and I saw a man who shone like bronze. He was holding a linen tape measure and a measuring rod and was standing by a gateway. 
“I shall be glad to accept,” Judith answered. “How could I refuse? I'll remember this happy night as long as I live.” 
The ship's carpenters : Were well-trained men from Byblos. : Sailors from every seagoing ship : Did business in your shops. 
My arrows will drip with their blood, : and my sword will kill all who oppose me. : I will spare no one who fights against me; : even the wounded and prisoners will die.’ 
(They were the same creatures that I had seen by the River Chebar.) When the creatures rose in the air 
Always remember what you have learnt. Your education is your life — guard it well. 
The mountains and hills may crumble, : but my love for you will never end; : I will keep for ever my promise of peace.” : So says the LORD who loves you. 
The priests killed the bulls first, then the sheep, and then the lambs, and sprinkled the blood of each sacrifice on the altar. 
Did the gods of any other nations save their countries from the emperor of Assyria? 
For as soon as I heard your greeting, the baby within me jumped with gladness. 
which was a symbol pointing to baptism, which now saves you. It is not the washing away of bodily dirt, but the promise made to God from a good conscience. It saves you through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, 
But his plans endure for ever; : his purposes last eternally. 
Tie it to the front of the turban with a blue cord. 
You were at one time spiritually dead because of your sins and because you were Gentiles without the Law. But God has now brought you to life with Christ. God forgave us all our sins; 
and burnt up their gods — which were no gods at all, only images of wood and stone made by human hands. 
When John's disciples told him about all these things, he called two of them 
The LORD is righteous in all he does, : merciful in all his acts. 
Jesus also told them this parable: “No one tears a piece off a new coat to patch up an old coat. If he does, he will have torn the new coat, and the piece of new cloth will not match the old.  
listen to their prayers. If any of your people Israel, out of heartfelt sorrow, stretch out their hands in prayer towards this Temple, 
If the one looking for revenge follows them there, the people of the city must not hand them over to them. They must protect them because they killed the person accidentally and not out of anger. 
I will do this to keep the Israelites from deserting me and defiling themselves by their sins. They are to be my people, and I will be their God.” The Sovereign LORD has spoken. 
Tell them that the LORD your God dried up the water of the Jordan for you until you had crossed, just as he dried up the Red Sea for us. 
He said, “Do you know why I came to you? It is to reveal to you what is written in the Book of Truth. Now I have to go back and fight the guardian angel of Persia. After that, the guardian angel of Greece will appear. There is no one to help me except Michael, Israel's guardian angel.
so Moses went out to meet him, bowed before him, and kissed him. They asked about each other's health and then went into Moses' tent. 
The whole crowd cried out, “Kill him! Set Barabbas free for us!” 
Jesus said all this as he taught in the Temple, in the room where the offering boxes were placed. And no one arrested him, because his hour had not come. 
Don't associate with people who drink too much wine or stuff themselves with food. 
There in the square by the gate he read the Law to them from dawn until noon, and they all listened attentively. 
he boiled over with anger. He called together all the Moabite rulers, all the Ammonite generals, and all the governors of the region along the Mediterranean coast 
We crossed over the sea off Cilicia and Pamphylia and came to Myra in Lycia. 
“Of course,” David answered. “I am your servant, and you will see for yourself what I can do.” : Achish said, “Good! I will make you my permanent bodyguard.” 
Anyone who responds to others with acts of kindness is thinking of the future, because he will find help if he ever falls on hard times.
Just as the LORD took delight in making you prosper and in making you increase in number, so he will take delight in destroying you and in bringing ruin on you. You will be uprooted from the land that you are about to occupy. 
Jattir, Eshtemoa, 
On the 24th day of the same month the people of Israel assembled to fast in order to show sorrow for their sins. They had already separated themselves from all foreigners. They wore sackcloth and put dust on their heads as signs of grief. 
Ezra was standing on a wooden platform that had been built for the occasion. The following men stood at his right: Mattithiah, Shema, Anaiah, Uriah, Hilkiah, and Maaseiah; and the following stood at his left: Pedaiah, Mishael, Malchijah, Hashum, Hashbaddanah, Zechariah, and Meshullam. 
The king ordered all the officials in his service to show their respect for Haman by kneeling and bowing to him. They all did so, except for Mordecai, who refused to do it. 
If you are not punished, as all his children are, it means you are not real children, but bastards. 
He takes what he wants, and no one can stop him; : no one dares ask him, “What are you doing?” 
For there are many, especially converts from Judaism, who rebel and deceive others with their nonsense. 
Jonah answered, “Throw me into the sea, and it will calm down. I know it is my fault that you are caught in this violent storm.” 
Do not be surprised because I tell you that you must all be born again.  
Injustice, arrogance, and wealth cause nations to fall from power, and others then rise to take their place. 
We went on ahead to the ship and sailed off to Assos, where we were going to take Paul aboard. He had told us to do this, because he was going there by land. 
A fire had been lit in the centre of the courtyard, and Peter joined those who were sitting round it. 
You have done all this, and I have said nothing, : so you thought that I was like you. : But now I reprimand you : and make the matter plain to you. 
Look at the crows: they don't sow seeds or gather a harvest; they don't have storerooms or barns; God feeds them! You are worth so much more than birds!  
But after it arrived there, the LORD punished that city too and caused a great panic. He punished them with tumours which developed in all the people of the city, young and old alike. 
For the breastpiece make chains of pure gold, twisted like cords. 
Give thanks to the mightiest of all lords; : his love is eternal. 
After that, the Israelites said to Gideon, “Be our ruler — you and your descendants after you. You have saved us from the Midianites.” 
Can you put a rope through his snout : or put a hook through his jaws? 
Elijah went up to the people and said, “How much longer will it take you to make up your minds? If the LORD is God, worship him; but if Baal is God, worship him!” But the people didn't say a word. 
All wrongdoing is sin, but there is sin which does not lead to death. 
You will suffer the consequences of your sin for forty years, one year for each of the forty days you spent exploring the land. You will know what it means to have me against you! 
They have no hope of escaping from darkness, : for somewhere a sword is waiting to kill them, 
He said to his father, “I want you to get this woman for me as my wife.” 
Yet, like King Jeroboam son of Nebat before him, he led Israel into sin, and would not stop. 
The people themselves are tall and strong; they are giants, and you have heard it said that no one can stand against them. 
Just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, in the same way the Son gives life to those he wants to.  
So he did not go back the same way he had come, but by another road. 
When the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy; they disputed what Paul was saying and insulted him. 
“Get some large stones and bury them in the mortar of the pavement in front of the entrance to the government building here in the city, and let some of the Israelites see you do it. 
The king also had a large throne made. Part of it was covered with ivory and the rest of it was covered with pure gold. 
But God will snatch the wicked from the land and pull sinners out of it like plants from the ground.
The whole city is in an uproar, filled with noise and excitement. : Your people who died in this war did not die fighting. 
Let me have three men from each tribe. I will send them out over the whole country to map out the territory that they would like to have as their possession. Then they are to come back to me. 
But if the community ignores what he has done and does not put him to death, 
It is not right for you to be proud! You know the saying, “A little bit of yeast makes the whole batch of dough rise.” 
who appeared in heavenly glory and talked with Jesus about the way in which he would soon fulfil God's purpose by dying in Jerusalem. 
While I was wondering what this meant, a goat came rushing out of the west, moving so fast that his feet didn't touch the ground. He had one prominent horn between his eyes. 
You will tell them whatever I tell you to say, whether they listen or not. Remember what rebels they are. 
Powerful nations are in commotion with a sound like the roar of the sea, like the crashing of huge waves. 
I want your constant love, not your animal sacrifices. I would rather have my people know me than burn offerings to me. 
Listen to me, everyone! There are terrors, pits, and traps waiting for you. 
At that time you, my people, will no longer need to be ashamed that you rebelled against me. I will remove everyone who is proud and arrogant, and you will never again rebel against me on my sacred hill.  
We felt that the death sentence had been passed on us. But this happened so that we should rely, not on ourselves, but only on God, who raises the dead. 
“Speak up for people who cannot speak for themselves. Protect the rights of all who are helpless. 
Jacob had set up his camp on a mountain, and Laban set up his camp with his relatives in the hill country of Gilead. 
All these are the laws and commands that the LORD gave to Moses on Mount Sinai for the people of Israel.
Moses and Eleazar received the gold, all of which was in the form of ornaments. 
Almighty God has destroyed my courage. : and the darkness has made me blind.
While the women went on their way, some of the soldiers guarding the tomb went back to the city and told the chief priests everything that had happened. 
Levi had three sons: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari, who were the ancestors of the clans that bear their names. Gershon had two sons: Libni and Shimei; Kohath had four sons: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel; and Merari had two sons: Mahli and Mushi. They were the ancestors of the families that bear their names. 
Then Korah gathered the whole community, and they stood facing Moses and Aaron at the entrance of the Tent. Suddenly the dazzling light of the LORD's presence appeared to the whole community, 
The deep sea covered them; : they sank to the bottom like a stone. 
If anyone has a sore on his skin or a boil or an inflammation which could develop into a dreaded skin disease, he shall be brought to the Aaronite priest. 
A third time Jesus said, “Simon son of John, do you love me?” : Peter was sad because Jesus asked him the third time, “Do you love me?” so he said to him, “Lord, you know everything; you know that I love you!” : Jesus said to him, “Take care of my sheep.  
His mother found an Egyptian wife for him. 
Judith's husband Manasseh, who belonged to the same tribe and clan, had died during the barley harvest. 
Now, Your Majesty, the reason I have come to speak to you is that the people threatened me, and so I said to myself that I would speak to you in the hope that you would do what I ask. 
Ruth answered, “I will do everything you say.” 
They buried him in the royal tombs in David's City in recognition of the service he had done for the people of Israel, for God, and for the Temple. 
He says that we will look for him but will not find him, and that we cannot go where he will be. What does he mean?” 
As he was talking to them, Goliath came forward and challenged the Israelites as he had done before. And David heard him. 
because it does not go into his heart but into his stomach and then goes on out of the body.” (In saying this, Jesus declared that all foods are fit to be eaten.) 
Then Adam had intercourse with his wife, and she became pregnant. She bore a son and said, “By the LORD's help I have acquired a son.” So she named him Cain.  
With our own eyes we saw him work miracles and do terrifying things to the Egyptians and to their king and to all his officials. 
But King Nebuchadnezzar commanded Nebuzaradan, the commanding officer, to give the following order
Now all this happened in order to make what the Lord had said through the prophet come true, 
The king got up in a fury, left the room, and went outside to the palace gardens. Haman could see that the king was determined to punish him for this, so he stayed behind to beg Queen Esther for his life. 
We receive from him whatever we ask, because we obey his commands and do what pleases him. 
Abraham was a hundred years old when Isaac was born. 
So Gideon sent all the Israelites home, except the 300, who kept all the supplies and trumpets. The Midianite camp was below them in the valley. 
When the man heard this, gloom spread over his face, and he went away sad, because he was very rich. 
The LORD became king of his people Israel : when their tribes and leaders were gathered together. 
“This is how your king will treat you,” Samuel explained. “He will make soldiers of your sons; some of them will serve in his war chariots, others in his cavalry, and others will run before his chariots. 
Everyone speaks well of Demetrius; truth itself speaks well of him. And we add our testimony, and you know that what we say is true. 
If you buy a Hebrew slave, he shall serve you for six years. In the seventh year he is to be set free without having to pay anything. 
Praise the LORD our God, : and worship at his sacred hill! : The LORD our God is holy.
The silver chain will snap, and the golden lamp will fall and break; the rope at the well will break, and the water jar will be shattered. 
for the LORD loves what is right : and does not abandon his faithful people. : He protects them for ever, : but the descendants of the wicked will be driven out. 
They start out with silly talk and end up with pure madness. 
But in spite of their fear, all the Israelites took up their weapons, lighted signal fires on the towers, and remained on guard duty all night. 
He took away all the treasures in the Temple and in the palace, including the gold shields Solomon had made. 
One day two prostitutes came and presented themselves before King Solomon. 
These two kings were defeated by Moses and the people of Israel. Moses, the LORD's servant, gave their land to the tribes of Reuben and Gad and to half the tribe of Manasseh, to be their possession. 
On the wedding day Othniel urged her to ask her father for a field. She got down from her donkey, and Caleb asked her what she wanted. 
The night before Herod was going to bring him out to the people, Peter was sleeping between two guards. He was tied with two chains, and there were guards on duty at the prison gate. 
For help that never came, we looked until we could look no longer. : We kept waiting for help from a nation that had none to give. 
Jacob's wife Rachel bore him two sons: Joseph and Benjamin. 
Even though he had performed all these miracles in their presence, they did not believe in him, 
The people of Israel mourned for him for thirty days in the plains of Moab. 
Yet you are not willing to come to me in order to have life. 
Some of the people in the crowd heard him say this and said, “This man is really the Prophet!” 
The LORD is righteous and loves good deeds; : those who do them will live in his presence.
“You have also heard that people were told in the past, ‘Do not break your promise, but do what you have vowed to the Lord to do.’  
“Each year bring to the house of the LORD your God the first corn that you harvest. : “Do not cook a young sheep or goat in its mother's milk. 
I am assigning to them the menial work that is to be done in the Temple.” 
“The Babylonians have built siege mounds round the city to capture it, and they are attacking. War, starvation, and disease will make the city fall into their hands. You can see that all you have said has come true. 
Now then, sing praises with all your heart, : and praise the name of the Lord!
The LORD struck Uzziah with a dreaded skin disease that stayed with him the rest of his life. He lived in a house on his own, relieved of all duties, while his son Jotham governed the country. 
Place in it the Covenant Box containing the Ten Commandments and put the curtain in front of it. 
The man led me back to the entrance of the Temple. Water was coming out from under the entrance and flowing east, the direction the Temple faced. It was flowing down from under the south part of the temple past the south side of the altar. 
You were famous everywhere, and people loved you for bringing peace. 
One disaster follows another; : the whole country is left in ruins. : Suddenly our tents are destroyed; : their curtains are torn to pieces. 
where the people recognized Jesus. So they sent for the sick people in all the surrounding country and brought them to Jesus. 
Once more I warn any man who allows himself to be circumcised that he is obliged to obey the whole Law. 
They saw him in the distance, and before he reached them, they plotted against him and decided to kill him. 
He has offered a sacrifice of many bulls, sheep, and fattened calves, and he invited your sons, and Abiathar the priest, and Joab the commander of your army to the feast, but he did not invite your son Solomon. 
Soon afterwards, one of her relatives will become king. He will attack the army of the king of Syria, enter their fortress, and defeat them. 
You should not do anything in front of a stranger that should be kept secret. There is no way of knowing what will happen if you do. 
The first basket contained good figs, those that ripen early; the other one contained bad figs, too bad to eat. 
But Jesus answered, “The scripture says, ‘Do not put the Lord your God to the test.’ ” 
“When that time comes, the fine vineyards, each with a thousand vines and each worth a thousand pieces of silver, will be overgrown with thorn bushes and briars. 
By speaking of a new covenant, God has made the first one old; and anything that becomes old and worn out will soon disappear.
Joseph threw himself on his father, crying and kissing his face. 
But the LORD's fierce anger had been aroused against Judah by what King Manasseh had done, and even now it did not die down. 
With my own hand I write this: Greetings from Paul. This is the way I sign every letter; this is how I write. 
On the fifth day of the fourth month of the thirtieth year, I, Ezekiel the priest, son of Buzi, was living with the Jewish exiles by the River Chebar in Babylonia. The sky opened, and I saw a vision of God. ( 
A warning given by an experienced person to someone willing to listen is more valuable than gold rings or jewellery made of the finest gold. 
Trust in the LORD, all you that worship him. : He helps you and protects you. 
Father, bring glory to your name!” : Then a voice spoke from heaven, “I have brought glory to it, and I will do so again.” 
These are Solomon's proverbs: : Wise children make their fathers proud of them; foolish ones bring their mothers grief. 
“No, I'm not drunk, sir,” she answered. “I haven't been drinking! I am desperate, and I have been praying, pouring out my troubles to the LORD. 
Jesus said to them, “I am telling you the truth: if you do not eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you will not have life in yourselves.  
Joab's brother Abishai was the leader of “The Famous Thirty”. He fought with his spear against 300 men and killed them, and became famous among “The Thirty”.  
Michmash — 122 
It was then almost noon of the day before the Passover. Pilate said to the people, “Here is your king!” 
Like a storm I swept them away to live in foreign countries. This good land was left a desolate place, with no one living in it.”
For we remember before our God and Father how you put your faith into practice, how your love made you work so hard, and how your hope in our Lord Jesus Christ is firm. 
But a man escaped and reported all this to Abram, the Hebrew, who was living near the sacred trees belonging to Mamre the Amorite. Mamre and his brothers Eshcol and Aner were Abram's allies. 
God said, “I am who I am. This is what you must say to them: ‘The one who is called I AM has sent me to you.’ 
So then, do as the LORD has commanded you: live according to his laws and obey him. 
Jesus said to him, “Anyone who starts to plough and then keeps looking back is of no use to the Kingdom of God.”
“What gift shall we send him?” the people asked. : They answered, “Five gold models of tumours and five gold mice, one of each for each Philistine king. The same plague was sent on all of you and on the five kings. 
Any nation will be punished if it does not welcome foreigners, 
Enjoy yourself and be happy; don't worry all the time. Worry never did anybody any good, and it has destroyed many people. 
As Moses had commanded, Hebron was given to Caleb, who drove out of the city the three clans descended from Anak. 
I prayed to the LORD my God and confessed the sins of my people. : I said, “Lord God, you are great, and we honour you. You are faithful to your covenant and show constant love to those who love you and do what you command. 
At once something like fish scales fell from Saul's eyes, and he was able to see again. He stood up and was baptized; 
On that day the LORD will use his powerful and deadly sword to punish Leviathan, that wriggling, twisting dragon, and to kill the monster that lives in the sea. 
the following regulations for the people of Israel. When a person has been given to the LORD in fulfilment of a special vow, that person may be set free by the payment of the following sums of money, 
Remember, my God, all these things that I have done for your Temple and its worship. 
John the Baptist kept telling Herod, “It isn't right for you to be married to your brother's wife!” 
God is Spirit, and only by the power of his Spirit can people worship him as he really is.” 
Hailstones will beat down on his enemies with terrible force. The oceans and rivers will come rushing over them in a devastating flood. 
At the time of those rulers the God of heaven will establish a kingdom that will never end. It will never be conquered, but will completely destroy all those empires, and then last for ever. 
He told me to put the rags under my arms, so that the ropes wouldn't hurt me. I did this, 
And it deceived all the people living on earth by means of the miracles which it was allowed to perform in the presence of the first beast. The beast told them to build an image in honour of the beast that had been wounded by the sword and yet lived. 
Then he shall loosen the woman's hair and put the offering of flour in her hands. In his hands the priest shall hold the bowl containing the bitter water that brings a curse. 
Stand by your duty and stick at it; grow old at your work. 
Some of your own direct descendants will be taken away and made eunuchs to serve in the palace of the king of Babylonia.” 
“We'll oppress the poor, even if they are righteous. We'll show no respect for widows or old people. 
If they open the gates and surrender, they are all to become your slaves and do forced labour for you. 
“But how terrible for you who are rich now; :   you have had your easy life! 
LORD, you have healed me. : We will play harps and sing your praise, : Sing praise in your Temple as long as we live.
Remember the covenant you made with us. : There is violence in every dark corner of the land. 
You appointed them rulers over everything you made; : you placed them over all creation
“No Israelite, man or woman, is to become a temple prostitute. 
But if anyone's work is burnt up, then he will lose it; but he himself will be saved, as if he had escaped through the fire. 
Joshua heard the people shouting and said to Moses, “I hear the sound of battle in the camp.” 
You allowed us to be slaughtered like sheep; : you scattered us in foreign countries. 
and especially because of all the innocent people he had killed. The LORD could not forgive Manasseh for that. 
But when God destroyed the cities of the valley where Lot was living, he kept Abraham in mind and allowed Lot to escape to safety. 
God is the only lawgiver and judge. He alone can save and destroy. Who do you think you are, to judge someone else? 
So David left his parents with the king of Moab, and they stayed there as long as David was hiding in the cave. 
Who waters the dry and thirsty land, : so that grass springs up? 
Our brothers and sisters won the victory over him by the blood of the Lamb and by the truth which they proclaimed; and they were willing to give up their lives and die. 
“Do not commit murder. 
Do not worship the LORD your God in the way they worship their gods, for in the worship of their gods they do all the disgusting things that the LORD hates. They even sacrifice their children in the fires on their altars. 
Go and gather the leaders of Israel together and tell them that I, the LORD, the God of their ancestors, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, appeared to you. Tell them that I have come to them and have seen what the Egyptians are doing to them. 
No priest may marry a divorced woman; he is to marry only an Israelite virgin or the widow of another priest. 
As Ezra stood there on the platform high above the people, they all kept their eyes fixed on him. As soon as he opened the book, they all stood up. 
They travelled through the region of Phrygia and Galatia because the Holy Spirit did not let them preach the message in the province of Asia. 
And so the LORD says, “I am planning to bring disaster on you, and you will not be able to escape it. You are going to find yourselves in trouble, and then you will not walk so proudly any more. 
All your lovers have forgotten you; : they no longer care about you. : I have attacked you like an enemy; : your punishment has been harsh : because your sins are many : and your wickedness is great. 
There was no war while Solomon was king. God gave him peace on all his borders, so that he could build for the Lord a Temple which would stand for ever. 
Pilate replied, “Do you think I am a Jew? It was your own people and the chief priests who handed you over to me. What have you done?” 
When a person is guilty, he must confess the sin, 
When I look at those traitors, I am filled with disgust, : because they do not keep your commands. 
I answered, “Who would listen to me if I spoke to them and warned them? They are stubborn and refuse to listen to your message; they laugh at what you tell me to say. 
As it turned east, the border went to Bethdagon, touching Zebulun and the Valley of Iphtahel on the way north to Bethemek and Neiel. It continued north to Cabul, 
Then he asked them, “Young men, haven't you caught anything?” : “Not a thing,” they answered. 
and said, “Save yourself if you are the king of the Jews!” 
Sing a new song to the LORD; : he has done wonderful things! : By his own power and holy strength : he has won the victory. 
I tried to think this problem through, : but it was too difficult for me 
So I came out looking for you. I wanted to find you, and here you are! 
and blow them away like straw in the wind, : or like dust carried away in a storm? 
The LORD gave me this message. 
he freed us from our enemies; : his love is eternal. 
The LORD said to Moses, 
When I see the wicked breaking your law, : I am filled with anger. 
Then the LORD said to his people, “Keep watching the nations round you, and you will be astonished at what you see. I am going to do something that you will not believe when you hear about it. 
I, Jesus son of Sirach Eleazar of Jerusalem, put all my wisdom into writing this book to provide instruction and knowledge for others. 
“When an evil spirit goes out of a person, it travels over dry country looking for a place to rest. If it can't find one, it says to itself, ‘I will go back to my house.’  
If your right-hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away! It is much better for you to lose one of your limbs than for your whole body to go to hell. 
All the curtains round the enclosure were made of fine linen. 
Then he breathed on them and said, “Receive the Holy Spirit.  
So they told them to leave the Council room, and then they started discussing among themselves. 
You are angry with God and denounce him. 
We have heard that some who went from our group have troubled and upset you by what they said; they had not, however, received any instruction from us. 
When the other servants saw what had happened, they were very upset and went to the king and told him everything.  
These people are the descendants of some Babylonians    
Then they went south to the fortified city of Tyre, on to all the cities of the Hivites and the Canaanites, and finally to Beersheba, in the southern part of Judah. 
For what seems to be God's foolishness is wiser than human wisdom, and what seems to be God's weakness is stronger than human strength. 
Those who eat my flesh and drink my blood live in me, and I live in them.  
He likes the company of evil people : and goes about with sinners. 
Then he put the box in the Tent and hung up the curtain. In this way he screened off the Covenant Box, just as the LORD had commanded. 
The axe is ready to cut down the trees at the roots; every tree that does not bear good fruit will be cut down and thrown in the fire.” 
Again Jesus refused to say a word, and Pilate was amazed. 
Which of you predicted that this would happen, : so that we could say that you were right? : None of you said a word about it; : no one heard you say a thing! 
I will gather the rest of my people from the countries where I have scattered them, and I will bring them back to their homeland. They will have many children and increase in number. 
In his fury he shattered the strength of Israel; : He refused to help us when the enemy came. : He raged against us like fire, destroying everything. 
The leaders of the people would stop talking; 
If, then, David called him ‘Lord’, how can the Messiah be David's descendant?” 
So that night they made him drunk, and the younger daughter had intercourse with him. Again he was so drunk that he didn't know it. 
You may use the silver and gold that is left over for whatever you and your people desire, in accordance with the will of your God. 
The priests, serving the LORD : between the altar and the entrance of the Temple, : must weep and pray: : “Have pity on your people, LORD. : Do not let other nations despise us and mock us : by saying, ‘Where is your God?’ ” 
When I saw that you were not going to, I risked my life and crossed the border to fight them, and the LORD gave me victory over them. So why are you coming to fight me now?” 
to proclaim this message to everyone in Jerusalem. : “I remember how faithful you were when you were young, : how you loved me when we were first married; : you followed me through the desert, : through a land that had not been sown. 
So Ruth went on gathering corn in the field until evening, and when she had beaten it out, she found she had nearly ten kilogrammes. 
When they first settled there, they did not worship the LORD, and so he sent lions, which killed some of them. 
Jehoshaphat had become king of Judah at the age of 35 and had ruled in Jerusalem for 25 years. His mother was Azubah, the daughter of Shilhi. 
“Do not think that I have come to do away with the Law of Moses and the teachings of the prophets. I have not come to do away with them, but to make their teachings come true.  
Happy and greatly blessed are those who are included in this first raising of the dead. The second death has no power over them; they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and they will rule with him for a thousand years. 
The next morning the Israelites hung the head of Holofernes on the wall of the town. All of them took up their weapons and went out in companies to the slopes in front of the town. 
May the God who chose Jerusalem as the place where he is to be worshipped overthrow any king or nation that defies this command and tries to destroy the Temple there. I, Darius, have given this order. It is to be fully obeyed.” 
He gives me victory over my enemies; : he subdues the nations under me 
Some left a reputation, : and people still praise them today. 
God's divine power has given us everything we need to live a truly religious life through our knowledge of the one who called us to share in his own glory and goodness. 
and use every kind of wicked deceit on those who will perish. They will perish because they did not welcome and love the truth so as to be saved. 
They may be alive and well when we find them, but they'll be dead when we're through with them! 
But in church worship I would rather speak five words that can be understood, in order to teach others, than speak thousands of words in strange tongues. 
King Josiah ordered the people to celebrate the Passover in honour of the LORD their God, as written in the book of the covenant. 
The Sovereign LORD says to the king of Egypt, “You will face the sword of the king of Babylonia. 
So David assembled the people of Israel from all over the country, from the Egyptian border in the south to Hamath Pass in the north, in order to bring the Covenant Box from Kiriath Jearim to Jerusalem. 
I will stay here in Ephesus until the day of Pentecost. 
Now, as for those enemies of mine who did not want me to be their king, bring them here and kill them in my presence!’ ” 
and destroyed them and the whole valley, along with all the people there and everything that grew on the land. 
From the clan of Merari there was Hosah, who had four sons: Shimri (his father made him the leader, even though he was not the eldest son), 
Fill us each morning with your constant love, : so that we may sing and be glad all our life. 
He came to me, stood by me, and said, ‘Brother Saul, see again!’ At that very moment I saw again and looked at him. 
This was because the people of Ammon and Moab did not give food and water to the Israelites on their way out of Egypt. Instead, they paid money to Balaam to curse Israel, but our God turned the curse into a blessing. 
He said to the people, “Stand away from the tents of these wicked men and don't touch anything that belongs to them. Otherwise, you will be wiped out with them for all their sins.” 
And about an hour later another man insisted strongly, “There isn't any doubt that this man was with Jesus, because he also is a Galilean!” 
So when they saw King Jehoshaphat, they all thought that he was the king of Israel, and they turned to attack him. But when he cried out, 
I am not afraid. I am going to talk : because I know my own heart.
They are telling you lies in my name. I did not send them. I, the LORD Almighty, have spoken.’ 
Do not hesitate to visit the sick. You will be loved for things like these. 
The Ammonites even crossed the Jordan to fight the tribes of Judah, Benjamin, and Ephraim. Israel was in great distress. 
Even before that time comes, the lands of those two kings who terrify you will be deserted. 
“Now hurry back to my father and tell him that this is what his son Joseph says: ‘God has made me ruler of all Egypt; come to me without delay. 
King Hadadezer sent for the Syrians who were on the east side of the River Euphrates, and they came to Helam under the command of Shobach, commander of the army of King Hadadezer of Zobah. 
At the altar the priest shall perform the ritual of purification to purify the person from his sin, and he will be forgiven. 
You will make me greater than ever; : you will comfort me again. 
Fire goes in front of him : and burns up his enemies round him. 
“I am your enemy!” says the LORD Almighty. “I will burn up your chariots. Your soldiers will be killed in war, and I will take away everything that you took from others. The demands of your envoys will no longer be heard.”
Some Greeks were among those who had gone to Jerusalem to worship during the festival. 
Moses and Aaron called together the whole community on the first day of the second month and registered all the people by clans and families. The names of all the men twenty years old or older were recorded and counted, 
On the twentieth day of the second month in the second year after the people left Egypt, the cloud over the Tent of the LORD's presence lifted, 
“Yes, I'm Elijah,” he answered. “Go and tell your master the king that I am here.” 
If an unmarried woman makes a vow, whether deliberately or carelessly, or promises to abstain from something, and then marries, 
The whole church and all the others who heard of this were terrified. 
So he took his eldest son, who was to succeed him as king, and offered him on the city wall as a sacrifice to the god of Moab. The Israelites were terrified and so they drew back from the city and returned to their own country.
Balaam answered, “I told the messengers you sent to me that 
Let me see you in the sanctuary; : let me see how mighty and glorious you are. 
The Levite whose concubine had been murdered answered, “My concubine and I went to Gibeah in the territory of Benjamin to spend the night. 
The LORD says to the people of Israel, “Come to me, and you will live. 
You must not eat any of the small animals that move on the ground, 
When that time comes, people will no longer say, : ‘The parents ate the sour grapes, : But the children got the sour taste.’ 
Keep me from paying attention to what is worthless; : be good to me, as you have promised. 
But you made the Nazirites drink wine, and ordered the prophets not to speak my message. 
He gave it to the people of Israel : when he attacked the land of Egypt. : I hear an unknown voice saying, 
The rest of the people in Bethulia went down to the Assyrian camp, plundered it and carried away enough loot to make themselves very rich. 
He told her, “I am your father's relative, the son of Rebecca.” : She ran to tell her father; 
“People are coming from a country in the north, : a mighty nation far away; : many kings are preparing for war. 
From among them will come rulers, leaders, and commanders to govern my people.  
Joahaz was 23 years old when he became king of Judah, and he ruled in Jerusalem for three months. 
Don't let my enemies be victorious; : make their threats against me fall back on them. 
the leaders of the community shall put their hands on its head, and it shall be killed there. 
He answered, “The man called Jesus made some mud, rubbed it on my eyes, and told me to go to Siloam and wash my face. So I went, and as soon as I washed, I could see.” 
But the disciples did not understand any of these things; the meaning of the words was hidden from them, and they did not know what Jesus was talking about. 
All round the outer edge of the rim of the tank were two rows of decorations, one above the other. The decorations were in the shape of bulls, which had been cast all in one piece with the rest of the tank. 
When a nation sins, it will have one ruler after another. But a nation will be strong and endure when it has intelligent, sensible leaders. 
Even the hairs of your head have all been counted. So do not be afraid; you are worth much more than many sparrows! 
Some Pharisees and Sadducees who came to Jesus wanted to trap him, so they asked him to perform a miracle for them, to show that God approved of him. 
The other group of those who gave thanks went to the left along the top of the wall, and I followed with half the people. We marched past the Tower of the Ovens to the Broad Wall, 
you must drive out all the inhabitants of the land. Destroy all their stone and metal idols and all their places of worship. 
Balaam answered, “I came, didn't I? But now, what power have I got? I can say only what God tells me to say.” 
The king will return to the fortresses of his own land, but he will be defeated, and that will be the end of him. 
These people are not sought out to serve on the public councils, and they never attain positions of great importance. They do not serve as judges, and they do not understand legal matters. They have no education and are not known for their wisdom. You never hear them quoting proverbs. 
Be confident, my heart, : because the LORD has been good to me. 
That will be the time when people will say to the mountains, ‘Fall on us!’ and to the hills, ‘Hide us!’  
Make them all the same size, thirteen metres long and two metres wide. 
When they arrived at Sukkoth, he said to the men of the town, “Please give my men some loaves of bread. They are exhausted, and I am pursuing Zebah and Zalmunna, the Midianite kings.” 
But I told them that we Romans are not in the habit of handing over anyone accused of a crime before he has met his accusers face to face and has had the chance of defending himself against the accusation. 
Where is there any hope for me? : Who sees any? 
and asked, “What will you give me if I betray Jesus to you?” They counted out thirty silver coins and gave them to him. 
They went out of the man and into the pigs. The whole herd rushed down the side of the cliff into the lake and was drowned. 
There are two things that make me sad, and a third that makes me angry: : a soldier who has become poor, : intelligent people who are not respected, : and a righteous person who turns to evil. : The Lord will punish such a person with death! 
So he held discussions in the synagogue with the Jews and with the Gentiles who worshipped God, and also in the public square every day with the people who happened to pass by. 
Early next morning each man made his promise and sealed it with a vow. Isaac said goodbye to them, and they parted as friends. 
They are like wild waves of the sea, with their shameful deeds showing up like foam. They are like wandering stars, for whom God has reserved a place for ever in the deepest darkness. 
And God, who knows the thoughts of everyone, showed his approval of the Gentiles by giving the Holy Spirit to them, just as he had to us. 
“Why, then,” Jesus asked, “did the Spirit inspire David to call him ‘Lord’? David said, 
This is what the LORD Almighty said about Edom: “Have the people of Edom lost their good judgement? Can their advisers no longer tell them what to do? Has all their wisdom disappeared? 
In the 52nd year of the reign of King Uzziah of Judah, Pekah son of Remaliah became king of Israel, and he ruled in Samaria for twenty years. 
and the messengers returned to the king. “Why have you come back?” he asked. 
The inner room, called the Most Holy Place, was nine metres long and nine metres wide, which was the full width of the Temple. Over twenty tonnes of gold were used to cover the walls of the Most Holy Place; 
We have heard how the LORD dried up the Red Sea in front of you when you were leaving Egypt. We have also heard how you killed Sihon and Og, the two Amorite kings east of the Jordan. 
Then the prophet Gad came to David and said, “Don't stay here; go at once to the land of Judah.” So David left and went to the forest of Hereth. 
Mishma, Dumah, Massa, 
These ten all have the same purpose, and they give their power and authority to the beast. 
Even my best friend, the one I trusted most, : the one who shared my food, : has turned against me. 
The LORD gave the Israelites victory over them; the Israelites attacked and pursued them as far north as Misrephoth Maim and Sidon, and as far east as the valley of Mizpah. The fight continued until none of the enemy was left alive. 
I have set an example for you, so that you will do just what I have done for you.  
And Jesus said to him, “Get up and go; your faith has made you well.” 
An officer of Pekahiah's forces, Pekah son of Remaliah, plotted with fifty men from Gilead, assassinated Pekahiah in the palace's inner fortress in Samaria, and succeeded him as king. 
“As for King Zedekiah of Judah, the politicians round him, and the rest of the people of Jerusalem who have stayed in this land or moved to Egypt — I, the LORD, will treat them all like these figs that are too bad to be eaten. 
May the bones of the twelve prophets rise to new life, because these men encouraged the people of Israel and saved them with confident hope. 
Joiada was the son of Eliashib the High Priest, but one of Joiada's sons married the daughter of Sanballat, from the town of Beth Horon, so I made Joiada leave Jerusalem. 
So I am going to fence her in with thorn bushes and build a wall to block her way. 
Those who survive will be scarcer than gold. 
But I did command them to obey me, so that I would be their God and they would be my people. And I told them to live as I had commanded them, so that things would go well for them. 
We are of the same race as our fellow-Jews. Aren't our children just as good as theirs? But we have to make slaves of our children. Some of our daughters have already been sold as slaves. We are helpless because our fields and vineyards have been taken away from us.” 
I am the LORD, your holy God. : I created you, Israel, and I am your king.” 
Happy are those who are persecuted because they do what God requires; :   the Kingdom of heaven belongs to them! 
I told myself, “I have become a great man, far wiser than anyone who ruled Jerusalem before me. I know what wisdom and knowledge really are.” 
Mary was deeply troubled by the angel's message, and she wondered what his words meant. 
Stupid people express their anger openly, but sensible people are patient and hold it back. 
It was a light punishment, but those who pay no attention to such warnings deserve to feel the full weight of God's judgement. 
Give orders, then, for his tomb to be carefully guarded until the third day, so that his disciples will not be able to go and steal the body, and then tell the people that he was raised from death. This last lie would be even worse than the first one.” 
Remember that the LORD has chosen the righteous for his own, : and he hears me when I call to him. 
Then Shecaniah son of Jehiel, of the clan of Elam, said to Ezra, “We have broken faith with God by marrying foreign women, but even so there is still hope for Israel. 
Their reputations will be passed on to their descendants, : and this will be their inheritance. 
I will never give up my claim to be right; : my conscience is clear. 
“How terrible for you, teachers of the Law and Pharisees! You hypocrites! You sail the seas and cross whole countries to win one convert; and when you succeed, you make him twice as deserving of going to hell as you yourselves are! 
Laban answered, “I would rather give her to you than to anyone else; stay here with me.” 
Do not be a terror to me; you are my place of safety when trouble comes. 
Be careful about going to the Temple. It is better to go there to learn than to offer sacrifices as foolish people do, people who don't know right from wrong. 
I will destroy those who have turned back and no longer follow me, those who do not come to me or ask me to guide them.” 
You think you are better than I am, : and regard my troubles as proof of my guilt. 
and perform the ritual to purify the Most Holy Place, the rest of the Tent of the LORD's presence, the altar, the priests, and all the people of the community. 
“Where are the gods that you made for yourselves? When you are in trouble, let them save you — if they can! Judah, you have as many gods as you have cities. 
Then make two rings of gold and attach them to the lower corners of the breastpiece on the inside edge next to the ephod. 
Ater (also called Hezekiah) — 98 
Pathrus, Casluh, and of Crete (from whom the Philistines were descended). 
he said, “I am the LORD. Tell the king of Egypt everything I tell you.” 
so that you, together with all God's people, may have the power to understand how broad and long, how high and deep, is Christ's love. 
and the whole world wanted to come and listen to the wisdom that God had given him. 
I have so much to tell you, but I do not want to do it with pen and ink. 
and examine the mildew. If there are greenish or reddish spots that appear to be eating into the wall, 
King Solomon took a census of all the foreigners living in the land of Israel, similar to the census his father David had taken. There were 153,600 resident foreigners. 
Everyone was amazed. “What kind of man is this?” they said. “Even the winds and the waves obey him!” 
He gives food to every living creature; : his love is eternal. 
All you that fear the Lord, wait for him to show you his mercy. Do not turn away from him, or you will fall. 
The Lord answered, “If you had faith as big as a mustard seed, you could say to this mulberry tree, ‘Pull yourself up by the roots and plant yourself in the sea!’ and it would obey you. 
And he would add, “How I wish I were a judge! Then anyone who had a dispute or a claim could come to me, and I would give him justice.” 
Rebellion against him is as bad as witchcraft, and arrogance is as sinful as idolatry. Because you rejected the LORD's command, he has rejected you as king.” 
There were two folding doors made of pine 
The king asked him, “Is there anyone left of Saul's family to whom I can show loyalty and kindness, as I promised God I would?” : Ziba answered, “There is still one of Jonathan's sons. He is crippled.” 
So we built an altar, not to burn sacrifices or make offerings, 
The brothers loaded their donkeys with the corn they had bought, and then they left. 
When John came, he fasted and drank no wine, and everyone said, ‘He has a demon in him!’  
so that your descendants may know that the LORD made the people of Israel live in simple shelters when he led them out of Egypt. He is the LORD your God. 
Moles, rats, mice, and lizards must be considered unclean. 
After capturing the fortress, David lived in it and named it “David's City”. He built the city round it, starting at the place where land was filled in on the east side of the hill. 
Moses prayed earnestly to the LORD and said, “What can I do with these people? They are almost ready to stone me.” 
But he rescued the needy from their misery : and made their families increase like flocks. 
In the territory of Asher: Mashal, Abdon, 
(The one who saw this happen has spoken of it, so that you also may believe. What he said is true, and he knows that he speaks the truth.) 
I want to obey your commands; : give me new life, for you are righteous. 
He presented the grain offering and took a handful of flour and burnt it on the altar. (This was in addition to the daily burnt offering.) 
and everyone in the city, from all classes of society, paid close attention to him. “He is that power of God known as ‘The Great Power’,” they said. 
When Boaz had finished eating and drinking, he was in a good mood. He went to the pile of barley and lay down to sleep. Ruth slipped over quietly, lifted the covers and lay down at his feet. 
The LORD spoke to me. 
destroy them in your anger; : destroy them completely. : Then everyone will know that God rules in Israel, : that his rule extends over all the earth. 
Then the king returned to the palace and spent a sleepless night, without food or any form of entertainment. 
The wicked are proud and persecute the poor; : catch them in the traps they have made. 
women who are always trying to learn but who can never come to know the truth. 
LORD, punish my enemies in that way — : those who say such evil things against me! 
Sing to God, kingdoms of the world, : sing praise to the Lord, 
That same night Saul sent some men to watch David's house and kill him the next morning. Michal, David's wife, warned him, “If you don't get away tonight, tomorrow you will be dead.” 
You see, then, that it is by people's actions that they are put right with God, and not by their faith alone. 
The LORD hates evil-minded people, but loves those who do right. 
Some teachers of the Law, who were Pharisees, saw that Jesus was eating with these outcasts and tax collectors, so they asked his disciples, “Why does he eat with such people?” 
every seven years they were to set free any Hebrew slave who had served them for six years. But your ancestors would not pay any attention to me or listen to what I said. 
He made the Jordan a boundary between us and you people of Reuben and Gad. You have nothing to do with the LORD.’ Then your descendants might make our descendants stop worshipping the LORD. 
or by lying about something that has been lost and swearing that he did not find it. 
You always have some witness against me; : your anger towards me grows and grows; : you always plan some new attack. 
The Israelites had done all the work just as the LORD had commanded Moses. 
I will not save this people from the world of the dead or rescue them from the power of death. Bring on your plagues, death! Bring on your destruction, world of the dead! I will no longer have pity for this people. 
May he be like those cities : that the LORD destroyed without mercy. : May he hear cries of pain in the morning : and the battle alarm at noon, 
“Look,” they say, “here is something new!” But no, it has all happened before, long before we were born. 
Give to them generously from what the LORD has blessed you with — sheep, corn, and wine. 
In addition, he hired 100,000 soldiers from Israel at a cost of about 3.4 tonnes of silver. 
The next day he saw two Israelites fighting, and he tried to make peace between them. ‘Listen, men,’ he said, ‘you are fellow-Israelites; why are you fighting like this?’ 
He will give a sense of justice to those who serve as judges, and courage to those who defend the city gates from attack. 
When the LORD your God places these people in your power and you defeat them, you must put them all to death. Do not make an alliance with them or show them any mercy. 
Now you can eat them, as well as green plants; I give them all to you for food. 
The property of every Israelite will remain attached to his tribe. 
and I was so zealous that I persecuted the church. As far as a person can be righteous by obeying the commands of the Law, I was without fault. 
I will make your population grow. You will live in the cities and rebuild everything that was left in ruins. 
Never abandon an old friend; you will never find a new one who can take their place. Friendship is like wine; it gets better as it grows older. 
When the Son of Man came, he ate and drank, and everyone said, ‘Look at this man! He is a glutton and a drinker, a friend of tax collectors and other outcasts!’ God's wisdom, however, is shown to be true by its results.” 
I will defend this city and protect it, for the sake of my own honour and because of the promise I made to my servant David.’ ” 
Greetings also to the church that meets in their house. : Greetings to my dear friend Epaenetus, who was the first in the province of Asia to believe in Christ. 
He had been king of Israel for forty years, ruling seven years in Hebron and 33 years in Jerusalem. 
David was thirty years old when he became king, and he ruled for forty years. 
Cut the ram in pieces; wash its internal organs and its hind legs, and put them on top of the head and the other pieces. 
Judah sent his friend Hirah to take the goat and get back from the woman the articles he had pledged, but Hirah could not find her. 
Some people said to Jesus, “The disciples of John fast frequently and offer prayers, and the disciples of the Pharisees do the same; but your disciples eat and drink.” 
sleeping like the kings and rulers : who rebuilt ancient palaces. 
While Gehazi was telling the king how Elisha had brought a dead person back to life, the woman made her appeal to the king. Gehazi said to him, “Your Majesty, here is the woman and here is her son whom Elisha brought back to life!” 
The king sent for Moses and Aaron and said, “This time I have sinned; the LORD is in the right, and my people and I are in the wrong. 
She had some men waiting in another room, so she shouted, “Samson! The Philistines are coming!” But he snapped the bowstrings just as thread breaks when fire touches it. So they still did not know the secret of his strength. 
The LORD spoke to Moses after the death of the two sons of Aaron who were killed when they offered unholy fire to the LORD. 
The righteous are like a light shining brightly; the wicked are like a lamp flickering out. 
“I will give you all this power and all this wealth,” the Devil told him. “It has all been handed over to me, and I can give it to anyone I choose. 
And accept salvation as a helmet, and the word of God as the sword which the Spirit gives you. 
Yet I will leave 7,000 people alive in Israel — all those who are loyal to me and have not bowed to Baal or kissed his idol.” 
“I am the LORD; there is no other god. : I will give you the strength you need, : although you do not know me. 
Then they took the bones and buried them under the tamarisk tree in the town, and fasted for seven days.
I know what you have done; I know that you are neither cold nor hot. How I wish you were either one or the other!  
They also covered the altar with sackcloth. Then all the men, women, and children in Jerusalem lay face down on the ground in front of the Temple; they lay there in the Lord's presence, all in sackcloth, their heads covered with ashes. They joined together in earnest prayer to the God of Israel, begging him not to let their children be captured, their wives carried off, or their home towns destroyed. They pleaded with him not to give the Gentiles the satisfaction of destroying the Temple and dishonouring it. 
go through the camp and say to the people, “Get some food ready, because in three days you are going to cross the River Jordan to occupy the land that the LORD your God is giving you.” 
The LORD said, “People will use this proverb about you, Jerusalem: ‘Like mother, like daughter.’ 
So you became an example to all believers in Macedonia and Achaia. 
Light shines on the righteous, : and gladness on the good. 
By his blood we are now put right with God; how much more, then, will we be saved by him from God's anger! 
Remember that the person who sows few seeds will have a small crop; the one who sows many seeds will have a large crop. 
After they had given their testimony and proclaimed the Lord's message, Peter and John went back to Jerusalem. On their way they preached the Good News in many villages of Samaria. 
It is the LORD who helps me, : and I will see my enemies defeated. 
God said that, because he knows that when you eat it you will be like God and know what is good and what is bad.” 
There are any number of ways to sin and bring down the Lord's anger, but sexual passion is a hot blazing fire that cannot be put out at will; it can only burn itself out. A man who lives for nothing but sexual enjoyment will keep on until that fire destroys him. 
Each day announces it to the following day; : each night repeats it to the next. 
When the people of Dan lost their land, they went to Laish and attacked it. They captured it, killed its people, and claimed it for themselves. They settled there and changed the name of the city from Laish to Dan, naming it after their ancestor Dan. 
so Pilate questioned him again, “Aren't you going to answer? Listen to all their accusations!” 
How can young people keep their lives pure? : By obeying your commands. 
he sent her this warning: “Don't imagine that you are safer than any other Jew just because you are in the royal palace. 
The LORD told me to go and buy a clay jar. He also told me to take some of the elders of the people and some of the older priests, 
But I am telling you the truth: it is better for you that I go away, because if I do not go, the Helper will not come to you. But if I do go away, then I will send him to you.  
At last the town clerk was able to calm the crowd. “Fellow-Ephesians!” he said. “Everyone knows that the city of Ephesus is the keeper of the temple of the great Artemis and of the sacred stone that fell down from heaven. 
But the LORD your God would not listen to Balaam; instead he turned the curse into a blessing, because he loved you. 
Then the priest shall offer the sin offering and perform the ritual of purification. After that, he shall kill the animal for the burnt offering 
The priest shall offer one as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering, to perform the ritual of purification for them because of their contact with a corpse. On the same day they shall reconsecrate their hair 
I valued her more than health and good looks. Hers is a brightness that never grows dim, and I preferred it to any other light. 
and nobody will feel sorry for you if you go about with sinners and get involved in their wrongdoing. 
Beyond it there was a passage, which had three guardrooms on each side. Each of the rooms was square, three metres on each side, and the walls between them were 2.5 metres thick. Beyond the guardrooms there was a passage three metres long that led to an entrance room which faced the Temple. 
Then Satan left the LORD's presence and made sores break out all over Job's body. 
When someone stumbled, weak and tired, : your words encouraged him to stand. 
That is how evil people think, but they are wrong. They are blinded by their own wickedness. 
He may disguise his hatred, but everyone will see the evil things he does. 
I am innocent and faithful, but my words sound guilty, : and everything I say seems to condemn me. 
And he went on to say to Zadok, “Look, take your son Ahimaaz and Abiathar's son Jonathan and go back to the city in peace. 
But God is my helper. : The Lord is my defender. 
So then, my brothers and sisters, set your hearts on proclaiming God's message, but do not forbid the speaking in strange tongues. 
Hear me! Save me now! : Be my refuge to protect me; : my defence to save me. 
On the way they met a man named Simon, who was coming into the city from the country, and the soldiers forced him to carry Jesus' cross. (Simon was from Cyrene and was the father of Alexander and Rufus.) 
This Temple will become a pile of ruins, and everyone who passes by will be shocked and amazed. ‘Why did the LORD do this to this land and this Temple?’ they will ask. 
With our own ears we have heard it, O God — : our ancestors have told us about it, : about the great things you did in their time, : in the days of long ago
How beautiful is the bright, clear sky above us! : What a glorious sight it is! 
Some of the people of Jerusalem said, “Isn't this the man the authorities are trying to kill? 
From all the tribes of Israel I chose his family to be my priests, to serve at the altar, to burn the incense, and to wear the ephod to consult me. And I gave them the right to keep a share of the sacrifices burnt on the altar. 
nothing at all was missing. David got back all his men's sons and daughters, and all the loot the Amalekites had taken. 
Parents, do not treat your children in such a way as to make them angry. Instead, bring them up with Christian discipline and instruction. 
I will restore the nation's ancient power : and establish it firmly again; : I will punish all who oppress them. 
May God bless the one who comes in the name of the LORD! : From the Temple of the LORD we bless you. 
Some of John's disciples began arguing with a Jew about the matter of ritual washing. 
When he finished, he said to the levitical priests, who were in charge of the LORD's Covenant Box, 
One thing led to another. It was not enough to be wrong about the knowledge of God. They lived in a state of evil warfare, but they were so ignorant that they called it peace. 
The first one looked like a lion; the second looked like a bull; the third had a face like a human face; and the fourth looked like an eagle in flight. 
Instead, rely on someone who is religious and known to keep the Lord's commands, someone who is sympathetic with you, who will be sorry to see you fail. 
Now, what about those people who are baptized for the dead? What do they hope to accomplish? If it is true, as some claim, that the dead are not raised to life, why are those people being baptized for the dead? 
He will speak words to you by which you and all your family will be saved.’ 
Moses answered, “Then you would have to provide us with animals for sacrifices and burnt offerings to offer to the LORD our God. 
Declare me innocent, O LORD, : because I do what is right : and trust you completely. 
Like a great rushing flood he completely destroys his enemies; : he sends to their death those who oppose him. 
according to their clans. Adnah was the commander of the troops from the clans of Judah, and he had 300,000 soldiers under him. 
On Herod's birthday the daughter of Herodias danced in front of the whole group. Herod was so pleased 
to take a census of the Levite clan of Gershon by sub-clans and families, 
So my people crowd in to hear what you have to say, but they don't do what you tell them to do. Loving words are on their lips, but they continue their greedy ways. 
Acts of kindness and charity are as lasting as eternity. 
My brothers and sisters, how I wish with all my heart that my own people might be saved! How I pray to God for them! 
“I will do whatever you think best,” the king answered. Then he stood by the side of the gate as his men marched out in units of a thousand and of a hundred. 
“Look, O LORD, at my agony, at the anguish of my soul! : My heart is broken in sorrow for my sins. : There is murder in the streets; even indoors there is death. 
the descendants of his servants will inherit it, : and those who love him will live there.
When my group and I blow our trumpets, then you blow yours all round the camp and shout, ‘For the LORD and for Gideon!’ ” 
In the trees near by, : the birds make their nests and sing. 
The men from the tribe of Benjamin gathered round Abner again and took their stand on the top of a hill. 
Send her from the holy heavens, down from your glorious throne, so that she may work at my side, and I may learn what pleases you. 
Because of your anger, I am in great pain; : my whole body is diseased because of my sins. 
If you had done the right thing, you would be smiling; but because you have done evil, sin is crouching at your door. It wants to rule you, but you must overcome it.” 
The LORD says, : “At that time I will restore : the prosperity of Judah and Jerusalem. 
Why have you abandoned us like this, O God? : Will you be angry with your own people for ever? 
Shimei cursed him and said, “Get out! Get out! Murderer! Criminal! 
During the day the LORD went in front of them in a pillar of cloud to show them the way, and during the night he went in front of them in a pillar of fire to give them light, so that they could travel night and day. 
LORD, you have examined me and you know me. 
and on the evening of the fourteenth day of the first month they did so in the Sinai Desert. The people did everything just as the LORD had commanded Moses. 
Jethro came with Moses' wife and her two sons into the desert where Moses was camped at the holy mountain. 
King Solomon was richer and wiser than any other king in the world. 
It will be a place where desert animals live and where owls build their nests. Ostriches will live there, and wild goats will prance through the ruins. 
Because Sarah was afraid, she denied it. “I didn't laugh,” she said. : “Yes, you did,” he replied. “You laughed.” 
The LORD spoke to me. 
Then he shall offer the second bird as a burnt offering, according to the regulations. In this way the priest shall offer the sacrifice for the man's sin, and he will be forgiven. 
and made plans to arrest Jesus secretly and put him to death. 
King Solomon and all the people of Israel assembled in front of the Covenant Box and sacrificed a large number of sheep and cattle — too many to count. 
Then the LORD spoke to me. 
Because I fear God's punishment, : I could never do such a thing. 
For when we lived according to our human nature, the sinful desires stirred up by the Law were at work in our bodies, and all we did ended in death. 
Kohath's second son, Izhar, had a son, Shelomith, the head of the clan. 
“What shall we say the Kingdom of God is like?” asked Jesus. “What parable shall we use to explain it?  
God is one, and he will put the Jews right with himself on the basis of their faith, and will put the Gentiles right through their faith. 
The time came when King David and his men set out to attack Jerusalem. The Jebusites, who lived there, thought that David would not be able to conquer the city, and so they said to him, “You will never get in here; even the blind and the crippled could keep you out.” 
I am being honest, God. Accept my word. : There is no one else to support what I say. 
Philip found Nathanael and told him, “We have found the one whom Moses wrote about in the book of the Law and whom the prophets also wrote about. He is Jesus son of Joseph, from Nazareth.” 
“Next, we moved north towards the region of Bashan, and King Og came out with all his men to fight us near the town of Edrei. 
If he is offering one of his cattle as a burnt offering, he must bring a bull without any defects. He must present it at the entrance of the Tent of the LORD's presence so that the LORD will accept him. 
Meanwhile, I will wait at the river crossings in the wilderness until I receive news from you.” 
and Haran died in his native city, Ur in Babylonia, while his father was still living. 
Did you overhear the plans God made? : Does human wisdom belong to you alone? 
“Why do you have to go today?” her husband asked. “It's neither a Sabbath nor a New Moon Festival.” : “Never mind,” she answered. 
Everything else that Manasseh did, including the sins he committed, is recorded in The History of the Kings of Judah. 
The Jews of Susa, however, made the fifteenth a holiday, since they had slaughtered their enemies on the thirteenth and fourteenth and then stopped on the fifteenth. 
When Moses had said this to the people of Israel, they took the man outside the camp and stoned him to death. In this way the people of Israel did what the LORD had commanded Moses.
The man took me to the gate that faces east, 
The LORD alone led his people : without the help of a foreign god. 
As soon as Araunah saw King David approaching, he left the threshing place and bowed low, with his face touching the ground. 
Come and eat the flesh of kings, generals, and soldiers, the flesh of horses and their riders, the flesh of all people, slave and free, great and small!” 
And he said to Shimei, “I give you my word that you will not be put to death.” 
You went out to save your people, : to save your chosen king. : You struck down the leader of the wicked : and completely destroyed his followers. 
The sinful people of Zion are trembling with fright. They say, “God's judgement is like a fire that burns for ever. Can any of us survive a fire like that?” 
He who calls you will do it, because he is faithful. 
They shall take a blue cloth and cover the lampstand, with its lamps, tongs, trays, and all the olive oil containers. 
That is why that field is called “Field of Blood” to this very day. 
God has made my own family forsake me; : I am a stranger to those who knew me; 
The LORD is loving and merciful, : slow to become angry and full of constant love. 
and from Bethgilgal, Geba, and Azmaveth. 
Let us give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! Because of his great mercy he gave us new life by raising Jesus Christ from death. This fills us with a living hope, 
(The priest carrying the ephod was Ahijah, the son of Ichabod's brother Ahitub, who was the son of Phinehas and grandson of Eli, the priest of the LORD in Shiloh.) The men did not know that Jonathan had left. 
Then Jesus went back to the synagogue, where there was a man who had a paralysed hand. 
But the angel said, “Go on with these men, but say only what I tell you to say.” So Balaam went on with them. 
One fate comes to all alike, and this is as wrong as anything that happens in this world. As long as people live, their minds are full of evil and madness, and suddenly they die. 
you will suffer sudden and terrible punishment. Judgement is especially severe on those in power. 
It is at night that people sleep; it is at night that they get drunk. 
After that, he had Zedekiah's eyes put out and had him placed in chains to be taken to Babylonia. 
They also took away the shovels and the ash containers used in cleaning the altar, the tools used in tending the lamps, the bowls used for catching the blood from the sacrifices, the bowls used for burning incense, and all the other bronze articles used in the temple service. 
Fools say to themselves, : “There is no God.” : They are all corrupt, : and they have done terrible things; : there is no one who does what is right. 
He worshipped and served Baal, and like his father before him, he aroused the anger of the LORD, the God of Israel.
When King Herod heard about this, he was very upset, and so was everyone else in Jerusalem. 
She rolled his body off the bed and took down the mosquito net from the bedposts. Then she came out and gave Holofernes' head to her slave, 
Jesus Christ is the one who came with the water of his baptism and the blood of his death. He came not only with the water, but with both the water and the blood. And the Spirit himself testifies that this is true, because the Spirit is truth. 
If his family is too small to eat a whole animal, he and his next-door neighbour may share an animal, in proportion to the number of people and the amount that each person can eat. 
At that, the king flew into a rage and ordered the three men to be brought before him. 
the LORD said to me, “Stand in the court of the Temple and proclaim all I have commanded you to say to the people who come from the towns of Judah to worship there. Do not leave out anything. 
‘Certainly not! I don't know you,’ the bridegroom answered.” 
In the past I knew only what others had told me, : but now I have seen you with my own eyes. 
He honours the childless wife in her home; : he makes her happy by giving her children. : Praise the LORD!
you are to choose the best qualified of the king's descendants, make him king, and fight to defend him.” 
Don't give evidence against someone else without good reason, or say misleading things about him. 
Rephaiah son of Hur, ruler of half the Jerusalem District, built the next section. 
I always expected to live a long life : and to die at home in comfort. 
But there were ten men in the group who said to Ishmael, “Please don't kill us! We have wheat, barley, olive oil, and honey hidden in the fields.” So he spared them. 
Achan son of Carmi, one of Zerah's descendants, brought disaster on the people of Israel by keeping loot that had been devoted to God. 
The courtyard there was decorated with blue and white cotton curtains, tied by cords of fine purple linen to silver rings on marble columns. Couches made of gold and silver had been placed in the courtyard, which was paved with white marble, red feldspar, shining mother-of-pearl, and blue turquoise. 
The LORD said to Moses, “You will soon die, and after your death the people will become unfaithful to me and break the covenant that I made with them. They will abandon me and worship the pagan gods of the land they are about to enter. 
You have heard what an Assyrian emperor does to any country he decides to destroy. Do you think that you can escape? 
People will say, “The righteous are indeed rewarded; : there is indeed a God who judges the world.”
Are you looking for special treatment for yourself? Don't do it. I am bringing disaster on the whole human race, but you will at least escape with your life wherever you go. I, the LORD, have spoken.”
And when I was informed that there was a plot against him, at once I decided to send him to you. I have told his accusers to make their charges against him before you.” 
In all my travelling with the people of Israel I never asked any of the leaders that I appointed why they had not built me a temple made of cedar.’ 
how the calendar is determined by the movements of the sun, the changing seasons, 
The customer always complains that the price is too high, but then he goes off and brags about the bargain he got. 
This happened because Jeroboam aroused the anger of the LORD, the God of Israel, by the sins that he committed and that he caused Israel to commit. 
Near King Ahab's palace in Jezreel there was a vineyard owned by a man named Naboth. 
He gives a command to the earth, : and what he says is quickly done. 
For the entrance of the Tent they made a curtain of fine linen woven with blue, purple, and red wool and decorated with embroidery. 
Esau then understood that his father Isaac did not approve of Canaanite women. 
The lion killed his prey : and tore it to pieces for his mate and her cubs; : he filled his den with torn flesh. 
The women said to Naomi, “Praise the LORD! He has given you a grandson today to take care of you. May the boy become famous in Israel! 
Going from house to house is a miserable way to live. Anywhere you go, you don't dare to speak. 
“I will call my people : and gather them together. : I will rescue them : and make them as numerous as they used to be. 
With one sacrifice, then, he has made perfect for ever those who are purified from sin. 
Do it at sunset, the time of day when you left Egypt. 
If I smile and try to forget my pain, : all my suffering comes back to haunt me; : I know that God does hold me guilty. 
“I must have been hit,” you will say; “I must have been beaten up, but I don't remember it. Why can't I wake up? I need another drink.”
How great the LORD is! He rules over everything. He will fill Jerusalem with justice and integrity 
You will go on from there until you come to the sacred tree at Tabor, where you will meet three men on their way to offer a sacrifice to God at Bethel. One of them will be leading three young goats, another one will be carrying three loaves of bread, and the third one will have a leather bag full of wine. 
I assure you that on Judgement Day God will show more mercy to Sodom than to that town! 
“If someone brings a lawsuit against you and takes you to court, settle the dispute with him while there is time, before you get to court. Once you are there, he will hand you over to the judge, who will hand you over to the police, and you will be put in jail.  
“We then asked the leaders of the people to tell us who had given them authority to rebuild the Temple and to equip it. 
Do no work on that day, because it is the day for performing the ritual to take away sin. 
The king sent for Joseph, and he was immediately brought from the prison. After he had shaved and changed his clothes, he came into the king's presence. 
Rejoice, rejoice, people of Zion! : Shout for joy, you people of Jerusalem! : Look, your king is coming to you! : He comes triumphant and victorious, : but humble and riding on a donkey — : on a colt, the foal of a donkey. 
Some time later God tested Abraham; he called to him, “Abraham!” And Abraham answered, “Yes, here I am!” 
but the dragon was defeated, and he and his angels were not allowed to stay in heaven any longer. 
The angel said to his heavenly attendants, “Take away the filthy clothes this man is wearing.” Then he said to Joshua, “I have taken away your sin and will give you new clothes to wear.” 
Yet even if they do live a long time, they will never amount to anything. They will not be respected in their old age, 
Bless our king, O God, : the king you have chosen. 
The LORD will destroy those people, just as he defeated Sihon and Og, kings of the Amorites, and destroyed their country. 
They left Babylonia on the first day of the first month, and with God's help they arrived in Jerusalem on the first day of the fifth month. 
But the earth will be as full of the knowledge of the LORD's glory as the seas are full of water. 
and taught them that punishment for sin takes the same form as the sin itself. 
Will the citizens of Keilah hand me over to Saul? Will Saul really come, as I have heard? LORD, God of Israel, I beg you to answer me!” : The LORD answered, “Saul will come.” 
King Amaziah of Judah and his advisers plotted against Israel. He then sent a message to King Jehoash of Israel, who was the son of Jehoahaz and grandson of Jehu, challenging him to fight.  
carnelians and other jewels to be set in the High Priest's ephod and in his breastpiece. 
So then the army handed the prisoners and the loot over to the people and their leaders, 
Turn away from evil and do good; : strive for peace with all your heart. 
The goat chosen for Azazel shall be presented alive to the LORD and sent off into the desert to Azazel, in order to take away the sins of the people. 
Those who are being taught the Christian message should share all the good things they have with their teachers. 
Uzziah sent messengers to the towns of Betomesthaim, Bebai, Choba, and Kola, and throughout the land of Israel to tell everyone what had happened and to urge them to join in pursuing and destroying the enemy. 
Countries near by and countries far away sneer at you because of your lawlessness. 
He destroyed many nations : and killed powerful kings
I urge you, my brothers and sisters: watch out for those who cause divisions and upset people's faith and go against the teaching which you have received. Keep away from them! 
The LORD came down on the top of Mount Sinai and called Moses to the top of the mountain. Moses went up 
When he arrived in Galilee, the people there welcomed him, because they had gone to the Passover Festival in Jerusalem and had seen everything that he had done during the festival. 
I have come to make you understand what will happen to your people in the future. This is a vision about the future.” 
After the Lord Jesus had talked with them, he was taken up to heaven and sat at the right side of God. 
Save us, O LORD our God, : and bring us back from among the nations, : so that we may be thankful : and praise your holy name. 
Someone is shouting in the desert, : ‘Get the road ready for the Lord; : make a straight path for him to travel!’ ” 
She answered, “All right, I will go with you, but you won't get any credit for the victory, because the LORD will hand Sisera over to a woman.” So Deborah set off for Kedesh with Barak. 
The nations heard about him : and trapped him in a pit. : With hooks they dragged him off to Egypt. 
“But you, mortal man, must not be afraid of them or of anything they say. They will defy and despise you; it will be like living among scorpions. Still, don't be afraid of those rebels or of anything they say. 
But if it grows thorns and weeds, it is worth nothing; it is in danger of being cursed by God and will be destroyed by fire. 
He went out, carrying his cross, and came to “The Place of the Skull”, as it is called. (In Hebrew it is called “Golgotha”.) 
No medicine or ointment cured them. They were restored to health by your word, O Lord, the word which heals all humanity. 
Isaiah then told the king, “The LORD Almighty says that 
To remove the uncleanness, some ashes from the red cow which was burnt to remove sin shall be taken and put in a pot, and fresh water added. 
Hear this, everyone! : Listen, all people everywhere, 
But anyone who denies this about Jesus does not have the Spirit from God. The spirit that he has is from the Enemy of Christ; you heard that it would come, and now it is here in the world already. 
They answered, “Now we know that the LORD is with you, and we think that there should be a solemn agreement between us. We want you to promise 
Grass to feed him grows : on the hills where wild beasts play. 
When they had finished mocking him, they took the robe off and put his own clothes back on him. Then they led him out to crucify him. 
‘I will no longer help them,’ he said; : ‘then I will see what happens to them, : those stubborn, unfaithful people. 
Yes, I will stretch out my hand and destroy their country. I will make it a waste from the southern desert to the city of Riblah in the north, not sparing any place where the Israelites live. Then everyone will know that I am the LORD.”
They are to take it down to a spot near a stream that never runs dry and where the ground has never been ploughed or planted, and there they are to break its neck. 
This is the line of King Solomon's descendants from father to son: Solomon, Rehoboam, Abijah, Asa, Jehoshaphat, 
“Search the past, the time before you were born, all the way back to the time when God created humanity on the earth. Search the entire earth. Has anything as great as this ever happened before? Has anyone ever heard of anything like this? 
I love you just as the Father loves me; remain in my love.  
Then the wine steward said to the king, “I must confess today that I have done wrong. 
So Ezra began by making the leaders of the priests, of the Levites, and of the rest of the people take an oath that they would do what Shecaniah had proposed. 
Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. All of them were descended from Joktan. 
The LORD's enemies will be destroyed; : he will thunder against them from heaven. : The LORD will judge the whole world; : he will give power to his king, : he will make his chosen king victorious.” 
But Saul sent them back to see David for themselves. He ordered them, “Carry him here in his bed, and I will kill him.” 
It will do you no good to cry out for help; : all your strength can't help you now. 
The LORD roars from Mount Zion; : his voice thunders from Jerusalem; : earth and sky tremble. : But he will defend his people. 
You are doomed, you that twist justice and cheat people out of their rights! 
Stay with me and don't be afraid. Saul wants to kill both you and me, but you will be safe with me.”
But the LORD, the righteous one, : has freed me from slavery.” 
Don't forget what I teach you, my child. Always remember what I tell you to do. 
Balaam said to him, “Build seven altars for me here and bring me seven bulls and seven rams.” 
At midnight the LORD killed all the firstborn sons in Egypt, from the king's son, who was heir to the throne, to the son of the prisoner in the dungeon; all the firstborn of the animals were also killed. 
There are people who take cruel advantage of the poor and needy; that is the way they make their living. 
King Xerxes imposed forced labour on the people of the coastal regions of his empire as well as on those of the interior. 
If a man has intercourse with his aunt, both of them must suffer the consequences for incest. 
So the king of Israel warned the people who lived in that place, and they were on guard. This happened several times. 
In the city everything is in chaos, and people lock themselves in their houses for safety. 
When he appeared before King Ahab, the king asked him, “Micaiah, should King Jehoshaphat and I go and attack Ramoth, or not?” : “Attack!” Micaiah answered. “Of course you'll win. The LORD will give you victory.” 
He has filled the hungry with good things, : and sent the rich away with empty hands. 
when I say how great is my sorrow, how endless the pain in my heart 
“The world of the dead is getting ready to welcome the king of Babylonia. The ghosts of those who were powerful on earth are stirring about. The ghosts of kings are rising from their thrones. 
Then Moses said to Aaron, “This is what the LORD was speaking about when he said, ‘All who serve me must respect my holiness; I will reveal my glory to my people.’ ” But Aaron remained silent. 
But for those who honour the LORD, his love lasts for ever, : and his goodness endures for all generations 
each with a grain offering of one kilogramme of flour, mixed with one litre of the best olive oil. 
The LORD is my light and my salvation; : I will fear no one. : The LORD protects me from all danger; : I will never be afraid. 
while David and all the people danced with all their might to honour God. They sang and played musical instruments — harps, drums, cymbals, and trumpets. 
God said to human beings, : “To be wise, you must have reverence for the Lord. : To understand, you must turn from evil.”
If a circumcised man has accepted God's call, he should not try to remove the marks of circumcision; if an uncircumcised man has accepted God's call, he should not get circumcised. 
the Ammonite leaders said to the king, “Do you think that it is in your father's honour that David has sent these men to express sympathy to you? Of course not! He has sent them here as spies to explore the city, so that he can conquer us!” 
After the epidemic the LORD said to Moses and Eleazar son of Aaron, 
When they return, they are to get rid of all the filthy, disgusting idols they find. 
I have always walked in your way : and have never strayed from it. 
The rules that you have given : are completely fair and right. 
Don't put me, your servant, on trial; : no one is innocent in your sight. 
‘No one hired us,’ they answered. ‘Well, then, you also go and work in the vineyard,’ he told them. 
“The prophets mislead my people by saying that all is well. All is certainly not well! My people have put up a wall of loose stones, and then the prophets have come and covered it with whitewash. 
All these soldiers, ready for battle, went to Hebron, determined to make David king over all Israel. All the rest of the people of Israel were united in the same purpose. 
Saul answered, “I belong to the tribe of Benjamin, the smallest tribe in Israel, and my family is the least important one in the tribe. Why, then, do you talk like this to me?” 
If you and your descendants will turn back to the LORD and with all your heart obey his commands that I am giving you today, 
The king was told that the prophet was there, and Nathan went in and bowed low before the king. 
The LORD said, “On that day kings and officials will lose their courage; priests will be shocked and prophets will be astonished.” 
Like a young man taking a virgin as his bride, : He who formed you will marry you. : As a groom is delighted with his bride, : So your God will delight in you. 
She glorifies her noble origin by living with God, the Lord of all, who loves her. 
So the LORD sent an epidemic on the people of Israel, and 70,000 of them died. 
to sell me Machpelah Cave, which is near the edge of his field. Ask him to sell it to me for its full price, here in your presence, so that I can own it as a burial ground.” 
The heavens sing of the wonderful things you do; : the holy ones sing of your faithfulness, LORD. 
tumbling rocks along as it flows, but then suddenly goes dry.  
When the army officer and the soldiers with him who were watching Jesus saw the earthquake and everything else that happened, they were terrified and said, “He really was the Son of God!” 
The breast of the animal is a special gift, and the right hind leg is a special contribution that the LORD has taken from the people of Israel and given to the priests. This is what the people of Israel must give to the priests for all time to come. 
Come near to God, and he will come near to you. Wash your hands, you sinners! Purify your hearts, you hypocrites! 
The reason I use parables in talking to them is that they look, but do not see, and they listen, but do not hear or understand.  
I pray to you, O God, because you answer me; : so turn to me and listen to my words. 
I ask God from the wealth of his glory to give you power through his Spirit to be strong in your inner selves, 
but the word of the Lord remains for ever.” : This word is the Good News that was proclaimed to you.
all animals, tame and wild, : reptiles and birds. 
They said to Moses and Aaron, “The LORD has seen what you have done and will punish you for making the king and his officers hate us. You have given them an excuse to kill us.” 
The peace that Christ gives is to guide you in the decisions you make; for it is to this peace that God has called you together in the one body. And be thankful. 
Your people did not conquer the land with their swords; : they did not win it by their own power; : it was by your power and your strength, : by the assurance of your presence, : which showed that you loved them. 
They shall bring the hind leg and the breast at the time the fat is presented as a food offering to the LORD. These parts belong to you and your children for ever, just as the LORD commanded.” 
If a king defends the rights of the poor, he will rule for a long time. 
There was a large herd of pigs near by, feeding on a hillside. So the demons begged Jesus to let them go into the pigs, and he let them. 
What holds up the pillars that support the earth? : Who laid the cornerstone of the world? 
at the roll call of the army no one from Jabesh had responded. 
God, the righteous one, knows what goes on in the homes of the wicked, and he will bring the wicked down to ruin. 
I thought to myself, “Because of her I will be honoured wherever people come together. The old men will respect me, even though I am young. 
This is how Almighty God : punishes wicked, violent people. 
“For the Festival of Shelters, which begins on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, the prince will offer on each of the seven days the same sacrifice for sin, the same offerings to be burnt whole, and the same offerings of corn and olive oil.”
So then, stand where you are, and you will see the great thing which the LORD is going to do. 
You must say, ‘Yes, your servant Jacob is just behind us.’ ” Jacob was thinking, “I will win him over with the gifts, and when I meet him, perhaps he will forgive me.” 
He says, “Gather my faithful people to me, : those who made a covenant with me by offering a sacrifice.” 
But Jesus knew their thoughts and said to the man, “Stand up and come here to the front.” The man got up and stood there. 
This is the list of the heads of the clans who had been in exile in Babylonia and who returned with Ezra to Jerusalem when Artaxerxes was emperor
Each of the Lord's messengers succeeds at its task. : Everything is held together by his word. 
Then they are to take a young bull and the required grain offering of flour mixed with olive oil; and you are to take another bull for the sin offering. 
You and your families may eat the rest anywhere, because it is your wages for your service in the Tent. 
The LORD said to Moses, 
All I want is to know Christ and to experience the power of his resurrection, to share in his sufferings and become like him in his death, 
I knew that you couldn't be trusted, : that you have always been known as a rebel. : That is why you never heard of this at all, : why no word of it ever came to your ears. 
You were at times publicly insulted and ill-treated, and at other times you were ready to join those who were being treated in this way. 
I will give you what I said I would : when I was in trouble. 
“Do not be afraid, little flock, for your Father is pleased to give you the Kingdom.  
and Solomon rebuilt it.) Using his forced labour, Solomon also rebuilt Lower Beth Horon, 
The lips of another man's wife may be as sweet as honey and her kisses as smooth as olive oil, 
and he will begin to beat his fellow-servants and to eat and drink with drunkards.  
Jesus was still talking to the people when his mother and brothers arrived. They stood outside, asking to speak with him. 
If our hope in Christ is good for this life only and no more, then we deserve more pity than anyone else in all the world. 
A husband is never angrier than when he is jealous; his revenge knows no limits. 
As you advanced, he drove out nations greater and more powerful than you, so that he might bring you in and give you their land, the land which still belongs to you. 
“Remove the evil person from your group.”
I also made my covenant with them, promising to give them the land of Canaan, the land in which they had lived as foreigners. 
The tribe of Manasseh: Machir son of Manasseh was the father of Gilead, and the following clans traced their ancestry to Gilead
If people are ashamed of me and of my teaching, then the Son of Man will be ashamed of them when he comes in his glory and in the glory of the Father and of the holy angels.  
Anyone who tries to escape from the terror will fall into a pit, and anyone who escapes from the pit will be caught in a trap. Torrents of rain will pour from the sky, and earth's foundations will shake. 
Put my silver cup in the top of the youngest brother's sack, together with the money for his corn.” He did as he was told. 
I realized another thing, that in this world fast runners do not always win the race, and the brave do not always win the battle. The wise do not always earn a living, intelligent people do not always get rich, and capable people do not always rise to high positions. Bad luck happens to everyone. 
They will disappear, but you will remain; : they will all wear out like clothes. 
Don't pay attention to everything people say — you may hear your servant insulting you, 
The throne had six steps leading up to it, with the figure of a lion at each end of every step, a total of twelve lions. 
and has brought you back from foreign countries, : from east and west, from north and south. 
I decided that the time to save my people had come; it was time to punish their enemies. 
Then Jacob commanded his sons, “Now that I am going to join my people in death, bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite, 
The High Priest Joakim, the priests, and all the others who served in the Lord's Temple, wore sackcloth when they offered the daily burnt offering, the freewill offerings of the people, and the offerings made to fulfil a vow. 
Your life must be controlled by love, just as Christ loved us and gave his life for us as a sweet-smelling offering and sacrifice that pleases God. 
The LORD said to Moses, “Write these words down, because it is on the basis of these words that I am making a covenant with you and with Israel.” 
“Master,” Simon answered, “we worked hard all night long and caught nothing. But if you say so, I will let down the nets.” 
Hurry! Run! I can't do anything until you get there.” : Because Lot called it small, the town was named Zoar. 
The very fact that you have legal disputes among yourselves shows that you have failed completely. Would it not be better for you to be wronged? Would it not be better for you to be robbed? 
“So now, the time is coming when I will send people to pour Moab out like wine. They will empty its wine jars and break them in pieces. 
On the other hand, don't think that you have everything you need or that nothing can go wrong for you in the future. 
The goldsmiths and the merchants built the last section, from the room at the corner as far as the Sheep Gate.
The following spring, at the time of the year when kings usually go to war, Joab led out the army and invaded the land of Ammon; King David, however, stayed in Jerusalem. They besieged the city of Rabbah, attacked it, and destroyed it. 
who came to tell people about the light, so that all should hear the message and believe. 
No one can agree with what you say! All must share alike: whoever stays behind with the supplies gets the same share as the one who goes into battle.” 
Saul, his son Jonathan, and their men camped in Geba in the territory of Benjamin; the Philistine camp was at Michmash. 
The families of the tribe of Judah received a part of the land described as follows: : The land reached south to the southernmost point of the wilderness of Zin, at the border of Edom. 
“People from southern Judah will occupy Edom; : those from the western foothills will capture Philistia; : Israelites will possess the territory of Ephraim and Samaria; : the people of Benjamin will take Gilead. 
At the back of the throne was the figure of a bull's head, and beside each of the two arms was the figure of a lion. 
The rich man had many cattle and sheep, 
This is a time of panic, defeat, and confusion in the Valley of Vision, and the Sovereign LORD Almighty has sent it on us. The walls of our city have been battered down, and cries for help have echoed among the hills. 
Protect me as you would your very eyes; : hide me in the shadow of your wings 
Jesus asked them, “How can it be said that the Messiah will be the descendant of David?  
We have acted wickedly against you and have not done what you commanded. We have not kept the laws which you gave us through Moses, your servant. 
The LORD says to his people, : “Your wounds are incurable, : your injuries cannot be healed. 
The Sovereign LORD said, “These are the boundaries of the land that is to be divided among the twelve tribes, with the tribe of Joseph receiving two sections.  
When you were the slaves of sin, you were free from righteousness. 
Instead, the sailors tried to get the ship to shore, rowing with all their might. But the storm was getting worse and worse, and they got nowhere. 
He will die in the country where they have taken him, and he will never again see this land.” 
So I make a request to you on behalf of Onesimus, who is my own son in Christ; for while in prison I have become his spiritual father. 
The whole point of what we are saying is that we have such a High Priest, who sits at the right of the throne of the Divine Majesty in heaven. 
Avoid evil and walk straight ahead. Don't go one step off the right way.
His glory is great because of your help; : you have given him fame and majesty. 
One night he went to Jesus and said to him, “Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher sent by God. No one could perform the miracles you are doing unless God were with him.” 
Abishur married a woman named Abihail, and they had two sons, Ahban and Molid. 
He returned to the city of Jezreel to recover from his wounds, and Ahaziah went there to visit him.
I know where you live, there where Satan has his throne. You are true to me, and you did not abandon your faith in me even during the time when Antipas, my faithful witness, was killed there where Satan lives.  
Then watch it go; if it goes towards the town of Beth Shemesh, this means that it is the God of the Israelites who has sent this terrible disaster on us. But if it doesn't, then we will know that he did not send the plague; it was only a matter of chance.” 
Listen to what you are taught. : Be wise; do not neglect it. 
I will destroy your idols and sacred stone pillars; no longer will you worship the things that you yourselves have made. 
My brothers and sisters, I myself feel sure that you are full of goodness, that you have all knowledge, and that you are able to teach one another. 
as the LORD had commanded. In the Sinai Desert, Moses registered the people. 
About this time King Hezekiah fell ill and almost died. The prophet Isaiah son of Amoz went to see him and said to him, “The LORD tells you that you are to put everything in order, because you will not recover. Get ready to die.” 
Here is a list of the amounts of the metals used in the Tent of the LORD's presence, where the two stone tablets were kept on which the Ten Commandments were written. The list was ordered by Moses and made by the Levites who worked under the direction of Ithamar son of Aaron the priest. 
If a man has sexual relations with another man, they have done a disgusting thing, and both shall be put to death. They are responsible for their own death. 
which does not hear the voice of the snake charmer, : or the chant of the clever magician. 
I will show you my power and my anger when I gather you together and bring you back from all the countries where you have been scattered. 
When I brought their ancestors out of Egypt, I solemnly warned them to obey me, and I have kept on warning the people until this day. 
Hanun and the inhabitants of the city of Zanoah rebuilt the Valley Gate. They put the gates in place, put in the bolts and the bars for locking the gate, and repaired the wall for 440 metres, as far as the Rubbish Gate. 
Ever since the time when he rebelled against the LORD, there had been a plot against him in Jerusalem. Finally he fled to the city of Lachish, but his enemies followed him there and killed him. 
So Jesus did not travel openly in Judea, but left and went to a place near the desert, to a town named Ephraim, where he stayed with the disciples. 
King Neco of Egypt took him prisoner and made Judah pay 3.4 tonnes of silver and 34 kilogrammes of gold as tribute. 
Receive her in the Lord's name, as God's people should, and give her any help she may need from you; for she herself has been a good friend to many people and also to me. 
The LORD said to Moses, “Early tomorrow morning go and meet the king as he goes to the river, and tell him that the LORD says, ‘Let my people go, so that they can worship me. 
Roar, sea, and every creature in you; : be glad, fields, and everything in you! 
When Moses came close enough to the camp to see the bull calf and to see the people dancing, he was furious. There at the foot of the mountain, he threw down the tablets he was carrying and broke them. 
I was made in the very beginning, : at the first, before the world began. 
The angel answered, “The Holy Spirit will come on you, and God's power will rest upon you. For this reason the holy child will be called the Son of God. 
Who can hear what God is saying : And receive the knowledge that comes from the Most High. : With staring eyes I see in a trance : A vision from Almighty God. 
The help that Egypt gives is useless. So I have nicknamed Egypt, ‘The Harmless Dragon’ ”. 
Now, however, you should forgive him and encourage him, in order to keep him from becoming so sad as to give up completely. 
The people were all amazed and said to one another, “What kind of words are these? With authority and power this man gives orders to the evil spirits, and they come out!” 
and cried out as they saw the smoke from the flames that consumed her: “There never has been another city like this great city!” 
I will bring such a disaster on them that all the nations of the world will be terrified. People will mock them, make jokes about them, ridicule them, and use their name as a curse everywhere I scatter them. 
The members of the Levite clans of Kohath and Korah stood up and with a loud shout praised the LORD, the God of Israel. 
Then the LORD said to me, 
I smiled on them when they had lost confidence; : my cheerful face encouraged them. 
I will give up whole nations to save your life, : because you are precious to me : and because I love you and give you honour. 
The High Priest Joakim, who was in Jerusalem at that time, wrote to the people in the towns of Bethulia and Betomesthaim, which face the Valley of Jezreel near Dothan. 
Righteous people speak wisdom, but the tongue that speaks evil will be stopped. 
I am the living one! I was dead, but now I am alive for ever and ever. I have authority over death and the world of the dead.  
“After you have occupied the land that the LORD your God is giving you and have settled there, 
He fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, “Saul, Saul! Why do you persecute me?” 
and for many days he appeared to those who had travelled with him from Galilee to Jerusalem. They are now witnesses for him to the people of Israel. 
I will sprinkle clean water on you and make you clean from all your idols and everything else that has defiled you. 
But they would not say anything. Jesus took the man, healed him, and sent him away. 
During his lifetime Absalom had built a monument for himself in King's Valley, because he had no son to keep his name alive. So he named it after himself, and to this day it is known as Absalom's Monument. 
With him goes Onesimus, that dear and faithful brother, who belongs to your group. They will tell you everything that is happening here. 
David captured the gold shields carried by Hadadezer's officials and took them to Jerusalem. 
The families of the Levite clan of Kohath were the first to be assigned cities. The families who were descended from Aaron the priest were assigned thirteen cities from the territories of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin. 
A day is coming when the people will sing this song in the land of Judah: : Our city is strong! : God himself defends its walls! 
You have oppressed the poor and robbed them of their grain. And so you will not live in the fine stone houses you build or drink wine from the beautiful vineyards you plant. 
You, LORD, give perfect peace : to those who keep their purpose firm : and put their trust in you. 
May the Lord make your love for one another and for all people grow more and more and become as great as our love for you. 
When the Judean officers and soldiers who had not surrendered heard about this, they joined Gedaliah at Mizpah. These officers were Ishmael son of Nethaniah, Johanan son of Kareah, Seraiah son of Tanhumeth, from the town of Netophah, and Jezaniah from Maacah. 
and now he has done what he said he would. All this happened because your people sinned against the LORD and disobeyed him. 
Some people stay healthy till the day they die; : they die happy and at ease, : their bodies well nourished. 
So the wine steward said, “In my dream there was a grapevine in front of me 
The king told him, “The people and their money are yours; do as you like with them.” 
“Show respect for old people and honour them. Reverently obey me; I am the LORD. 
Soon the Philistines returned to the valley and started plundering it again. 
The next morning the LORD spoke to me. 
But the earth will become a desert because of the wickedness of those who live on it. 
The soldiers from the land of Elam came riding on horseback, armed with bows and arrows. Soldiers from the land of Kir had their shields ready. 
“The LORD will scatter you among all the nations, from one end of the earth to the other, and there you will serve gods made of wood and stone, gods that neither you nor your ancestors have ever worshipped before. 
Jehoiada chose two wives for King Joash, and they bore him sons and daughters. 
While the money was being taken out of the storeroom, Hilkiah found the book of the Law of the LORD, the Law that God had given to Moses. 
but he walked through the middle of the crowd and went his way. 
In this year all property that has been sold shall be restored to its original owner. 
: Akkub, Talmon, and their relatives, 172 in all. 
The LORD Almighty said to me, “Israel will be stripped clean like a vineyard from which every grape has been picked. So you must rescue everyone you can while there is still time.” 
For seven days no one in your land is to have any yeast in the house; and the meat of the animal killed on the evening of the first day must be eaten that same night. 
Moses gave God's laws and teachings to the people of Israel. 
I will let the city of Pelusium, Egypt's great fortress, feel my fury. I will destroy the wealth of Thebes. 
So they went and apologized to them; then they led them out of the prison and asked them to leave the city. 
He brings our work to a stop; : he shows us what he can do. 
All this showed how lovingly you care for your children. That food satisfied the desire of everyone who ate it; it was changed to suit each person's taste. 
and he uttered this prophecy: : “The message of Balaam son of Beor, : The words of the man who can see clearly, 
He answered, ‘The LORD, whom I have always obeyed, will send his angel with you and give you success. You will get for my son a wife from my own people, from my father's family. 
Those who win the victory will receive this from me: I will be their God, and they will be my children. 
Count yourself lucky if you have been spared the experience of having irresponsible talk directed against you — if you have never had that iron yoke round your neck or those heavy chains on your legs. 
No rain will fall, and your ground will become as hard as iron. 
Our wives have been raped on Mount Zion itself; : in every Judean village our daughters have been forced to submit. 
While Pilate was sitting in the judgement hall, his wife sent him a message: “Have nothing to do with that innocent man, because in a dream last night I suffered much on account of him.” 
He answered, “King Balak of Moab has sent them to tell me 
He returned to Elisha with all his men and said, “Now I know that there is no god but the God of Israel; so please, sir, accept a gift from me.” 
for the Father himself loves you. He loves you because you love me and have believed that I came from God.  
What are human beings? Of what use are they? The good that they do — the evil that they do — what does it all mean? 
The servant put her out and locked the door. : Tamar was wearing a long robe with full sleeves, the usual clothing for an unmarried princess in those days.  
Saul and the Israelites assembled and camped in the Valley of Elah, where they got ready to fight the Philistines. 
You show your strength when people doubt that your power is perfect, and you punish anyone who knows your power but dares to ignore it. 
The descendants of Ishmael lived in the territory between Havilah and Shur, to the east of Egypt on the way to Assyria. They lived apart from the other descendants of Abraham. 
You created the moon to mark the months; : the sun knows the time to set. 
How handsome you are, my dearest; : how you delight me! : The green grass will be our bed; 
The following formed the choir that sang the responses: Bakbukiah, Unno, and their fellow-Levites. 
You know that such people are corrupt, and their sins prove that they are wrong. 
The LORD said to Moses, 
and forty silver bases, two under each frame. 
Lod, and Ono, and in the Valley of Craftsmen. 
At that time she became ill and died. Her body was washed and laid in a room upstairs. 
Jarmuth, and Engannim, with their pasture lands. 
I assure you that whoever does not receive the Kingdom of God like a child will never enter it.”  
A day is coming when the Lord will take away from the women of Jerusalem everything they are so proud of — the ornaments they wear on their ankles, on their heads, on their necks, 
This was done to make what the prophet Isaiah had said come true
He said to himself, “As things are now, if my people go to Jerusalem and offer sacrifices to the LORD in the Temple there, they will transfer their allegiance to King Rehoboam of Judah and will kill me.” 
“I am looking for my brothers, who are taking care of their flock,” he answered. “Can you tell me where they are?” 
But the person who loves God is known by him. 
When I heard this, I tore my clothes in despair, tore my hair and my beard, and sat down crushed with grief. 
“Do what Joab says,” Solomon answered. “Kill him and bury him. Then neither I nor any other of David's descendants will any longer be held responsible for what Joab did when he killed innocent men. 
The commanding officer took me aside and said, “The LORD your God threatened this land with destruction, 
Then on the east side of the city I went north to the Fountain Gate and the King's Pool. The donkey I was riding could not find any path through the rubble, 
Samaria's wounds cannot be healed, and Judah is about to suffer in the same way; destruction has reached the gates of Jerusalem itself, where my people live.” 
The LORD said to me, “Mortal man, are you ready to judge Oholah and Oholibah? Accuse them of the disgusting things they have done. 
You may know everything there is to know about wickedness, but that does not make you wise. It is not sensible to follow the advice of sinners. 
So the disciples went and did what Jesus had told them to do
While there was still plenty of meat for them to eat, the LORD became angry with the people and caused an epidemic to break out among them. 
The Lord said to him, “Go, because I have chosen him to serve me, to make my name known to Gentiles and kings and to the people of Israel.  
Jacob gave the king a farewell blessing and left. 
I do this in order that they may be filled with courage and may be drawn together in love, and so have the full wealth of assurance which true understanding brings. In this way they will know God's secret, which is Christ himself.  
Samuel explained to the people the rights and duties of a king, and then wrote them in a book, which he deposited in a holy place. Then he sent everyone home. 
Jehoiakim was 25 years old when he became king of Judah, and he ruled in Jerusalem for eleven years. His mother was Zebidah, the daughter of Pedaiah from the town of Rumah. 
So I let them go their stubborn ways : and do whatever they wanted. 
Why should you be stubborn, as the king of Egypt and the Egyptians were? Don't forget how God made fools of them until they let the Israelites leave Egypt. 
Their eyes and ears will be open to the needs of the people. 
“Anyone who is not for me is really against me; anyone who does not help me gather is really scattering. 
If it is one of the common people who sins and becomes guilty of breaking one of the LORD's commands without intending to, 
The LORD Almighty says, “I will attack Babylon and bring it to ruin. I will leave nothing — no children, no survivors at all. I, the LORD, have spoken. 
The one who is then picked out and found with the condemned goods will be burnt, along with his family and everything he owns, for he has brought terrible shame on Israel and has broken my covenant.” 
The room in front of the Most Holy Place was eighteen metres long. 
Keilah, Achzib, and Mareshah: nine cities, along with the towns round them. 
So God made the two larger lights, the sun to rule over the day and the moon to rule over the night; he also made the stars. 
from the clan of Elizaphan, Shemaiah, in charge of 200; 
If anyone has a boil that has healed 
On each side of the entrance, there are to be 6.6 metres of curtains, with three posts and three bases. 
There are four things that the earth itself cannot tolerate
For only a penny you can buy two sparrows, yet not one sparrow falls to the ground without your Father's consent.  
by being clothed with it we shall not be without a body. 
Keep your roots deep in him, build your lives on him, and become stronger in your faith, as you were taught. And be filled with thanksgiving. 
The plant sprouted and became a low, wide-spreading grapevine. The branches grew upward towards the eagle, and the roots grew deep. The vine was covered with branches and leaves. 
“To the angel of the church in Philadelphia write: :   “This is the message from the one who is holy and true. He has the key that belonged to David, and when he opens a door, no one can close it, and when he closes it, no one can open it.  
That is how it is with you: now you are sad, but I will see you again, and your hearts will be filled with gladness, the kind of gladness that no one can take away from you. 
I give them eternal life, and they shall never die. No one can snatch them away from me.  
How great is the Lord's merciful forgiveness of those who turn to him! 
When he spoke, the world was created; : at his command everything appeared. 
So they asked him, “What can we do in order to do what God wants us to do?” 
Yes, look at them and bring them down; : crush the wicked where they stand. 
Zibeon had two sons, Aiah and Anah. (This is the Anah who found the hot springs in the wilderness when he was taking care of his father's donkeys.)  
But one night Saul's followers took him and let him down through an opening in the wall, lowering him in a basket. 
All the cities which the Philistines had captured between Ekron and Gath were returned to Israel, and so Israel got back all its territory. And there was peace also between the Israelites and the Canaanites. 
You know about Stephanas and his family; they are the first Christian converts in Achaia and have given themselves to the service of God's people. I beg you, my brothers and sisters, 
and you will have a fine place to live. 
I know that you left because you were so anxious to get back home, but why did you steal my household gods?” 
Children just naturally do silly, careless things, but a good spanking will teach them how to behave. 
When you bring me burnt offerings and grain offerings, I will not accept them; I will not accept the animals you have fattened to bring me as offerings. 
They angered him with their heathen places of worship, : and with their idols they made him furious. 
Happy are those whose greatest desire is to do what God requires; :   God will satisfy them fully! 
We said, “Let us go to the LORD's house; : let us worship before his throne.” 
While they are watching, break a hole through the wall of your house and take your pack out through it. 
Every jar and pot in the tent that has no lid on it also becomes unclean. 
Good people suffer many troubles, : but the LORD saves them from them all; 
Everything that Jehoiakim did, including his disgusting practices and the evil he committed, is recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel and Judah. His son Jehoiachin succeeded him as king. 
where they will live in exile. There they will remember me and know that I have punished them and disgraced them, because their faithless hearts deserted me and they preferred idols to me. And they will be disgusted with themselves because of the evil and degrading things they have done. 
Micaiah answered, “I can see the army of Israel scattered over the hills like sheep without a shepherd. And the LORD said, ‘These men have no leader; let them go home in peace.’ ” 
So he went to get them and brought them to her, and she cooked the kind of food that his father liked. 
Didn't God make you one body and spirit with her? What was his purpose in this? It was that you should have children who are truly God's people. So make sure that none of you breaks his promise to his wife. 
God said to Abraham, “You must no longer call your wife Sarai; from now on her name is Sarah.  
Now, there are many other things that Jesus did. If they were all written down one by one, I suppose that the whole world could not hold the books that would be written.
“A priest is not to become ritually unclean by touching a corpse, unless it is one of his parents, one of his children or a brother or an unmarried sister. 
His servants went up to him and said, “Sir, if the prophet had told you to do something difficult, you would have done it. Now why can't you just wash yourself, as he said, and be cured?” 
The moon determines the holy days. : Its light grows full and then grows dim. 
So you must obey and follow everything they tell you to do; do not, however, imitate their actions, because they don't practise what they preach.  
and Moses did so. 
Put Wisdom's chains round your feet and her yoke round your neck. 
But God let no one oppress them; : to protect them, he warned the kings
Above the dome there was something that looked like a throne made of sapphire, and sitting on the throne was a figure that looked like a human being. 
If someone unintentionally touches anything ritually unclean, such as a dead animal, he is unclean and guilty as soon as he realizes what he has done. 
May God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peace. 
“But the LORD is just, for I have disobeyed him. : Listen to me, people everywhere; look at me in my pain. : My young men and women have been taken away captive. 
Now that you know this truth, how happy you will be if you put it into practice! 
The following priestly clans could find no record to prove their ancestry: Hobaiah, Hakkoz, and Barzillai. (The ancestor of the priestly clan of Barzillai had married a woman from the clan of Barzillai of Gilead and taken the name of his father-in-law's clan.) Since they were unable to prove who their ancestors were, they were not accepted as priests. 
It is better to be poor and live under your own crude roof than to enjoy lavish banquets in other people's homes. 
and they saw the God of Israel. Beneath his feet was what looked like a pavement of sapphire, as blue as the sky. 
Our enemies have no reason to gloat over us. We have fallen, but we will rise again. We are in darkness now, but the LORD will give us light. 
Why from your mighty peaks do you look with scorn : on the mountain on which God chose to live? : The LORD will live there for ever! 
but if the animal was stolen, the man must repay the owner. 
Discipline your children while they are young enough to learn. If you don't, you are helping them to destroy themselves. 
So now, since you are a deeply religious woman, pray for our people; ask the Lord to send rain to fill our cisterns, so that we can get our strength back.” 
They captured the source of our life, the king the LORD had chosen, : the one we had trusted to protect us from every invader. 
The descendants of Javan were the people of Elishah, Spain, Cyprus, and Rhodes; 
Let us praise God for his glorious grace, for the free gift he gave us in his dear Son! 
When the people of Israel saw the fire fall from heaven and the light fill the Temple, they fell face downwards on the pavement, worshipping God and praising him for his goodness and his eternal love. 
“My fellow-Israelites, I must speak to you plainly about our famous ancestor King David. He died and was buried, and his grave is here with us to this very day. 
“Have you ever known one of the authorities or one Pharisee to believe in him? 
But God finds fault with his people when he says: : “The days are coming, says the Lord, : when I will draw up a new covenant with the people of Israel and with the people of Judah. 
Conceited people do not like to be corrected; they never ask for advice from those who are wiser. 
And so I praise you among the nations; : I sing praises to you. 
I made the keeping of the Sabbath a sign of the agreement between us, to remind them that I, the LORD, make them holy. 
and Bela, the son of Azaz and grandson of Shema, of the clan of Joel. This clan lived in Aroer and in the territory from there north to Nebo and Baal Meon. 
Amram married his father's sister Jochebed, who bore him Aaron and Moses. Amram lived 137 years. 
The following morning Jonathan went to the fields to meet David, as they had agreed. He took a young boy with him 
But when only one trumpet is sounded, then only the leaders of the clans are to gather round you. 
and I will let them live in southern Egypt, their original home. There they will be a weak kingdom, 
No matter how much you dream, how much useless work you do, or how much you talk, you must still stand in awe of God. 
Those who predict the future will be disgraced by their failure. They will all be humiliated because God does not answer them. 
and they were talking to each other about all the things that had happened. 
As we advanced into this land, the LORD drove out all the Amorites who lived here. So we also will serve the LORD; he is our God.” 
When Jesus said to them, “I am he,” they moved back and fell to the ground. 
“I have chosen Bezalel, the son of Uri and grandson of Hur, from the tribe of Judah, 
Solomon ruled over all the land west of the River Euphrates, from Tiphsah on the Euphrates as far west as the city of Gaza. All the kings west of the Euphrates were subject to him, and he was at peace with all the neighbouring countries. 
King Rehoboam consulted the older men who had served as his father Solomon's advisers. “What answer do you advise me to give these people?” he asked. 
Don't do it! Keep away from evil! Refuse it and go on your way. 
The LORD blessed you in every way, but you would not serve him with glad and joyful hearts. 
Yet they still dared to go up into the hill country, even though neither the LORD's Covenant Box nor Moses left the camp. 
And David also sent messengers to Ishbosheth to say, “Give me back my wife Michal. I paid a hundred Philistine foreskins in order to marry her.” 
“I, Nebuchadnezzar, the great king and ruler of all the earth, command you to choose some experienced soldiers: 120,000 infantry and 12,000 cavalry. 
“Listen, people of Israel! Today you are about to cross the River Jordan and occupy the land belonging to nations greater and more powerful than you. Their cities are large, with walls that reach the sky. 
Then Micah said, “Because of this I will mourn and lament. To show my sorrow, I will walk about barefoot and naked. I will howl like a jackal and wail like an ostrich. 
More than once I have heard God say : that power belongs to him 
You may buy food and water from them.’ 
When Tobias left, he was as happy as could be. He praised the Lord of heaven and earth, the King of all the world, because his journey had been so successful, and he promised to honour Raguel and his wife as long as they lived. : As they came near the city of Kaserin, just outside Nineveh, 
When that day comes, they will roar over Israel as loudly as the sea. Look at this country! Darkness and distress! The light is swallowed by darkness.
The LORD says, “People are coming from a country in the north; a mighty nation far away is preparing for war. 
He killed the firstborn sons of the Egyptians; : his love is eternal. 
Those who are good are rewarded here on earth, so you can be sure that wicked and sinful people will be punished.
Then the LORD said to me, “Tell the people that I, the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, am commanding them to drink until they are drunk and vomit, until they fall down and cannot get up, because of the war that I am sending against them. 
Then Azariah son of Hoshaiah and Johanan son of Kareah and all the other arrogant men said to me, “You are lying. The LORD our God did not send you to tell us not to go and live in Egypt. 
did John's right to baptize come from God or from human beings?” 
And they asked Jesus, “Why do the teachers of the Law say that Elijah has to come first?” 
Nor does anyone pour new wine into used wineskins, for the skins will burst, the wine will pour out, and the skins will be ruined. Instead, new wine is poured into fresh wineskins, and both will keep in good condition.” 
Now the Assyrians are stronger than ever; they take pride in their cavalry and their infantry. They rely on their weapons, but they do not know that you, O Lord, are a warrior who ends war. The Lord is your name. 
King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you do!” 
For it is clear that it is not the angels that he helps. Instead, he helps the descendants of Abraham. 
Now because the king had given strict orders for the furnace to be made extremely hot, the flames burnt up the guards who took the men to the furnace. 
But at dawn the next day, at God's command, a worm attacked the plant, and it died. 
The priests, the prophets, and all the people heard me saying these things in the Temple, 
They sowed the fields and planted grapevines : and reaped an abundant harvest. 
The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you. 
King David and all the Israelites went and attacked the city of Jerusalem. It was then known as Jebus, and the Jebusites, the original inhabitants of the land, were still living there. 
But I did not, since that would have brought dishonour to my name, for in the presence of the people among whom they were living I had announced to Israel that I was going to lead them out of Egypt. 
No other nation, no matter how great, has laws so just as those that I have taught you today. 
I will put him in charge of my people and my kingdom for ever. His dynasty will never end.’ ” 
In the morning you will see the dazzling light of the LORD's presence. He has heard your complaints against him — yes, against him, because we are only carrying out his instructions.” 
Agrippa said to Paul, “In this short time do you think you will make me a Christian?” 
But, as Elisha had said, at about that time the following year she gave birth to a son. 
When lawless people imagined that they had your holy nation in their power, they were themselves imprisoned in a long night of darkness. They lay in their own houses, shut off from your eternal care. 
For the LORD is a mighty God, : a mighty king over all the gods. 
So Joshua made a covenant for the people that day, and there at Shechem he gave them laws and rules to follow. 
“Don't collect more than is legal,” he told them. 
At that time the prophet Hanani went to King Asa and said, “Because you relied on the king of Syria instead of relying on the LORD your God, the army of the king of Israel has escaped from you. 
She did what she could; she poured perfume on my body to prepare it ahead of time for burial.  
You, my disciples are to guard and preserve the messages that God has given me. 
When Herod, the ruler of Galilee, heard about all the things that were happening, he was very confused, because some people were saying that John the Baptist had come back to life. 
If there are many people present, don't try to be the first to be served. 
This memorial stone which I have set up will be the place where you are worshipped, and I will give you a tenth of everything you give me.”
Do not be tempted to worship and serve what you see in the sky — the sun, the moon, and the stars. The LORD your God has given these to all other peoples for them to worship. 
When Elisha arrived, he went alone into the room and saw the boy lying dead on the bed. 
Meanwhile the word of God continued to spread and grow. 
Tell of it, you that ride on white donkeys, : sitting on saddles, : and you that must walk wherever you go. 
Return to the LORD, and let this prayer be your offering to him: “Forgive all our sins and accept our prayer, and we will praise you as we have promised. 
The people who were in the house with Mary, comforting her, followed her when they saw her get up and hurry out. They thought that she was going to the grave to weep there. 
they stumbled and staggered like drunken men — : all their skill was useless. 
The priests, the Levites, the temple guards, the musicians, many of the ordinary people, the temple workmen — all the people of Israel — settled in the towns and cities of Judah.
There were 128 members of this clan who were outstanding soldiers. Their leader was Zabdiel, a member of a leading family.
Now, to the unmarried and to the widows I say that it would be better for you to continue to live alone as I do. 
What a joy it is to find just the right word for the right occasion! 
The ocean depths raise their voice, O LORD; : they raise their voice and roar. 
He should be a man who is respected by the people outside the church, so that he will not be disgraced and fall into the Devil's trap. 
They all ate and had enough. Then the disciples took up seven baskets full of pieces left over. 
One was Sihon, the Amorite king who ruled at Heshbon. His kingdom included half of Gilead: from Aroer (on the edge of the valley of the Arnon) and the city in the middle of that valley, as far as the River Jabbok, the border of Ammon; 
Jesus ordered the spirit, “Be quiet and come out of the man!” The demon threw the man down in front of them and went out of him without doing him any harm. 
A day is coming when human pride will be ended and human arrogance destroyed. Then the LORD alone will be exalted. 
For there is no longer any sacrifice that will take away sins if we purposely go on sinning after the truth has been made known to us. 
And yet it was God who made them prosperous — : I can't understand the thoughts of the wicked. 
and your rulers profaned my sanctuary. : So I brought destruction on Israel; : I let my own people be insulted.”
Will you even look at me, God, : or put me on trial and judge me? 
But Uriah did not go home; instead he slept at the palace gate with the king's guards. 
Here is Rebecca; take her and go. Let her become the wife of your master's son, as the LORD himself has said.” 
They remembered that God was their protector, : that the Almighty came to their aid. 
In the meantime Absalom had fled. : Just then the soldier on sentry duty saw a large crowd coming down the hill on the road from Horonaim. He went to the king and reported what he had seen.  
Jacob worked seven years so that he could have Rachel, and the time seemed like only a few days to him, because he loved her. 
Jesus said to her, “My daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace.” 
‘Father,’ the son said, ‘I have sinned against God and against you. I am no longer fit to be called your son.’  
So I speak to him face to face, clearly and not in riddles; he has even seen my form! How dare you speak against my servant Moses?” 
Jesus entered Jerusalem, went into the Temple, and looked round at everything. But since it was already late in the day, he went out to Bethany with the twelve disciples. 
I will bring war on you and scatter you in foreign lands. Your land will be deserted, and your cities left in ruins. 
These people are not drunk, as you suppose; it is only nine o'clock in the morning. 
because you will not abandon me in the world of the dead; : you will not allow your faithful servant to rot in the grave. 
(No doubt there must be divisions among you so that the ones who are in the right may be clearly seen.) 
Hazar Shual, Beersheba, Biziothiah, 
The 144,000 people stood before the throne, the four living creatures, and the elders; they were singing a new song, which only they could learn. They are the only ones who have been redeemed. 
Because of you I am afraid; : I am filled with fear because of your judgements. 
Take into the boat with you a male and a female of every kind of animal and of every kind of bird, in order to keep them alive. 
There was a gate facing in each direction, north, south, east, and west, and each had a chief guard. 
To those who were to receive what he promised, God wanted to make it very clear that he would never change his purpose; so he added his vow to the promise. 
Tobit was excited and praised God as he went out to meet his son's bride at the city gate. When the people of Nineveh saw him, they were amazed, because he was walking on his own, with no one leading him by the hand. 
It is dangerous to be concerned with what others think of you, but if you trust the LORD, you are safe. 
Seven steps led up to it, and its entrance room was also at the end facing the courtyard. There were palm trees carved on the inner walls that faced the passage. 
to slaughter shepherds and their flocks, : to slaughter ploughmen and their horses, : to crush rulers and high officials.” 
Then Jacob said to Joseph, “As you see, I am about to die, but God will be with you and will take you back to the land of your ancestors. 
After the sun had set and evening had come, people brought to Jesus all the sick and those who had demons. 
who heard their groaning and remembered his covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. 
It included Beersheba, Sheba, Moladah, 
He offered rest and comfort to all of you, but you refused to listen to him. 
When Shalmaneser died, his son Sennacherib succeeded him as emperor. It soon became so dangerous to travel on the roads in Media that I could no longer go there. 
At the centre of the storm, I saw what looked like four living creatures in human form, 
In the same way you wives must submit to your husbands, so that if any of them do not believe God's word, your conduct will win them over to believe. It will not be necessary for you to say a word, 
Don't hesitate to rescue someone who is about to be executed unjustly. 
And after all this, Judah, Israel's unfaithful sister, only pretended to return to me; she was not sincere. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
Bring us back to you, LORD! Bring us back! : Restore our ancient glory. 
They may grow great, towering to the sky, : so great that their heads reach the clouds, 
Honour the LORD by making him an offering from the best of all that your land produces. 
I have given more than a hundred tonnes of the finest gold and almost 240 tonnes of pure silver for decorating the walls of the Temple 
Loving her is loving life itself; rising early to look for her is pure joy. 
There was peace between Israel and Syria for the next two years, 
The descendants of Eleazar were organized into sixteen groups, while the descendants of Ithamar were organized into eight; this was done because there were more male heads of families among the descendants of Eleazar. 
Then he appeared to more than 500 of his followers at once, most of whom are still alive, although some have died. 
they spread out westwards almost to Gerar and pastured their sheep on the eastern side of the valley in which that city is located.  
The disciples went to Jesus and woke him up, saying, “Master, Master! We are about to die!” : Jesus got up and gave an order to the wind and the stormy water; they died down, and there was a great calm. 
When Naaman heard of this, he went to the king and told him what the girl had said. 
their military and civilian leaders, their politicians and everyone who uses magic to control events. 
Nothing that is under God's curse will be found in the city. : The throne of God and of the Lamb will be in the city, and his servants will worship him. 
The righteous have enough to eat, but the wicked are always hungry.
“The Kingdom of heaven is like this. Once there was a king who prepared a wedding feast for his son.  
As the scripture says, “I loved Jacob, but I hated Esau.” 
He knows when we are denied the rights he gave us; 
“Take your son,” God said, “your only son, Isaac, whom you love so much, and go to the land of Moriah. There on a mountain that I will show you, offer him as a sacrifice to me.” 
She too was full of lust for the Assyrian noblemen and officers — soldiers in bright uniforms — and for the cavalry officers, all those handsome young men. 
“Teacher,” they said, “Moses said that if a man who has no children dies, his brother must marry the widow so that they can have children who will be considered the dead man's children. 
People of Jerusalem, gather your forces! We are besieged! They are attacking the leader of Israel! 
They came to a place called Golgotha, which means, “The Place of the Skull”. 
“God will punish you for what you have done to us! You are to blame for what is happening, because you did not make peace with the Assyrians. 
Then the LORD said to Moses, “The man must be put to death; the whole community is to stone him to death outside the camp.” 
“After being away from Jerusalem for several years, I went there to take some money to my own people and to offer sacrifices. 
Give her as much suffering and grief : as the glory and luxury she gave herself. : For she keeps telling herself: : ‘Here I sit, a queen! : I am no widow, : I will never know grief!’ 
Clan of Immer: Hanani and Zebadiah 
Worst of all, there were men and women who served as prostitutes at those pagan places of worship. The people of Judah practised all the shameful things done by the people whom the LORD had driven out of the land as the Israelites advanced into the country. 
He will put their kings in your power. You will kill them, and they will be forgotten. No one will be able to stop you; you will destroy everyone. 
So Ruth worked with them and gathered corn until all the barley and wheat had been harvested. And she continued to live with her mother-in-law.
and he said to them, “The sorrow in my heart is so great that it almost crushes me. Stay here and keep watch with me.” 
“ ‘Respect your father and your mother, as I, the LORD your God, command you, so that all may go well with you and so that you may live a long time in the land that I am giving you. 
Joab and his men took Asahel's body and buried it in the family tomb at Bethlehem. Then they marched all night and at dawn arrived back at Hebron.
When that day comes, each of you will invite his neighbour to come and enjoy peace and security, surrounded by your vineyards and fig trees.”
They sewed five of them together in one set and did the same with the other five. 
We are glad because of him; : we trust in his holy name. 
Then he went off from them about the distance of a stone's throw and knelt down and prayed. 
So Moses and Aaron were brought back to the king, and he said to them, “You may go and worship the LORD your God. But exactly who will go?” 
Then the LORD God made the man fall into a deep sleep, and while he was sleeping, he took out one of the man's ribs and closed up the flesh. 
This means that every time you eat this bread and drink from this cup you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. 
Does either the rain or the dew have a father? 
At the command of the LORD, Moses wrote down the name of the place each time they set up camp. 
I am destroying Babylon : and putting it to silence. : The armies rush in like roaring waves : and attack with noisy shouts. 
You formed my body with bones and sinews : and covered the bones with muscles and skin. 
He was forty years old when he was made king of Israel, and he ruled for two years. : But the tribe of Judah was loyal to David, 
As surely as God speaks the truth, my promise to you was not a “Yes” and a “No”. 
The LORD showed me two baskets of figs placed in front of the Temple. (This was after King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia had taken away Jehoiakim's son, King Jehoiachin of Judah, as a prisoner from Jerusalem to Babylonia, together with the leaders of Judah, the craftsmen, and the skilled workers.) 
He also had a large throne made. Part of it was covered with ivory and the rest of it was covered with the finest gold. 
He shot his arrows and scattered his enemies; : with flashes of lightning he sent them running. 
I will be bold and speak only about what Christ has done through me to lead the Gentiles to obey God. He has done this by means of words and deeds, 
It was then that David first gave Asaph and his fellow-Levites the responsibility for singing praises to the LORD. 
God never said to any of his angels: : “Sit here on my right : until I put your enemies : as a footstool under your feet.” 
Evening passed and morning came — that was the fourth day. 
He was faithful to God, who chose him to do this work, just as Moses was faithful in his work in God's house. 
They took the robe to their father and said, “We found this. Does it belong to your son?” 
The Israelites left Sukkoth and camped at Etham on the edge of the desert. 
“Don't be afraid,” Samuel answered. “Even though you have done such an evil thing, do not turn away from the LORD, but serve him with all your heart. 
So the people of Israel started out and three days later arrived at the cities where these people lived: Gibeon, Chephirah, Beeroth, and Kiriath Jearim. 
They are also to fine him a hundred pieces of silver and give the money to the woman's father, because the man has brought disgrace on an Israelite woman. Moreover, she will continue to be his wife, and he can never divorce her as long as he lives. 
I, Paul, make a personal appeal to you — I who am said to be meek and mild when I am with you, but harsh with you when I am away. By the gentleness and kindness of Christ 
So they began to persecute Jesus, because he had done this healing on a Sabbath. 
But if any Christian woman has widows in her family, she must take care of them and not put the burden on the church, so that it may take care of the widows who are all alone. 
and gave them orders not to tell others about him. 
Moses replied, “Do you want to stay here while your fellow-Israelites go to war? 
and was rebuked for his sin. His donkey spoke with a human voice and stopped the prophet's insane action. 
Whenever I tried to become wise and learn what goes on in the world, I realized that you could stay awake night and day 
Wealth and strength give confidence, but the fear of the Lord can give you even greater confidence. When you fear the Lord you need nothing more; it is all the support you need. 
There were some who ruled kingdoms, : and some who were known for their strength. : Some were wise advisers, : and some spoke prophecies. 
Then the Israelites went to the place of worship and mourned in the presence of the LORD until evening. They asked him, “Should we go again into battle against our brothers the Benjaminites?” : The LORD answered, “Yes.” : So the Israelite army was encouraged, and they placed their soldiers in the same position as they had been the day before. 
Tobias then applied the gall, and beginning from the corners of Tobit's eyes, he peeled away the white film. 
including Hamor and his son Shechem. Then they took Dinah from Shechem's house and left. 
The sons a man has when he is young : are like arrows in a soldier's hand. 
After a little while the men standing there came to Peter. “Of course you are one of them,” they said. “After all, the way you speak gives you away!” 
“I am the word spoken by the Most High. : I covered the earth like a mist. 
So Jesus went with them. He was not far from the house when the officer sent friends to tell him, “Sir, don't trouble yourself. I do not deserve to have you come into my house, 
But if people are bound in chains, : suffering for what they have done, 
You have given the victory to his enemies; : you have made them all happy. 
A large crowd followed him, because they had seen his miracles of healing those who were ill. 
But even then Judith ate and drank only what her slave had prepared. 
At that time he will stand on the Mount of Olives, to the east of Jerusalem. Then the Mount of Olives will be split in two from east to west by a large valley. Half the mountain will move northwards and half of it southwards. 
It was the will of the LORD God to bring about what he had spoken to Jeroboam son of Nebat through the prophet Ahijah from Shiloh. This is why the king did not pay any attention to the people. 
The sailors were terrified and cried out for help, each one to his own god. Then, in order to lessen the danger, they threw the cargo overboard. Meanwhile, Jonah had gone below and was lying in the ship's hold, sound asleep. 
But he saved them, as he had promised, : in order to show his great power. 
When the disciples all came together in Galilee, Jesus said to them, “The Son of Man is about to be handed over to people  
Each creature had four faces. The first was the face of a bull, the second a human face, the third the face of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle. 
Why do you admit that you are ignorant and do nothing about it? 
Jesus noticed that the crowd was closing in on them, so he gave a command to the evil spirit. “Deaf and dumb spirit,” he said, “I order you to come out of the boy and never go into him again!” 
Joshua drew lots to consult the LORD for them, and assigned each of the remaining tribes of Israel a certain part of the land. 
At that time I also discovered that many of the Jewish men had married women from Ashdod, Ammon, and Moab. 
If you do warn an evil person and he doesn't stop sinning, he will die, still a sinner, but your life will be spared.” 
The most skilled men among those doing the work made the Tent of the LORD's presence. They made it out of ten pieces of fine linen woven with blue, purple, and red wool and embroidered with figures of winged creatures. 
I will put a stop to your lust and to the obscenities you have committed ever since you were in Egypt. You won't look at any more idols or think about Egypt any more.” 
Every lawless act leaves an incurable wound, like one left by a double-edged sword. 
What a mighty mountain is Bashan, : a mountain of many peaks! 
You are patient, you have suffered for my sake, and you have not given up.  
But because of the sacred promise that he and Jonathan had made to each other, David spared Jonathan's son Mephibosheth, the grandson of Saul. 
“Tell Eleazar son of Aaron the priest to remove the bronze firepans from the remains of the men who have been burnt, and scatter the coals from the firepans somewhere else, because the firepans are holy. 
The LORD said, “I have given to the Levites every tithe that the people of Israel present to me. This is in payment for their service in taking care of the Tent of my presence. 
“Go and tell the king of Egypt that he must let the Israelites leave his land.” 
Honour the LORD and act carefully, because the LORD our God does not tolerate fraud or partiality or the taking of bribes.” 
“Whom shall I call up for you?” the woman asked. : “Samuel,” he answered. 
Now anyone may live in their tents — : after sulphur is sprinkled to disinfect them! 
He also made all the equipment for the altar: the pans, the shovels, the bowls, the hooks, and the firepans. All this equipment was made of bronze. 
Asaph was appointed leader, with Zechariah as his assistant. Jeiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed Edom, and Jeiel were to play harps. Asaph was to sound the cymbals, 
Then I will be glad because of the LORD; : I will be happy because he saved me. 
Wounds can be bandaged and insults can be forgiven, but if you betray a confidence, it is hopeless. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “tell the Israelites a parable 
May the LORD judge which one of us is wrong! May he punish you for your action against me, for I will not harm you in the least. 
If I had died then, I would be at rest now, 
The Philistines sent the five gold tumours to the LORD as a gift to pay for their sins, one each for the cities of Ashdod, Gaza, Ashkelon, Gath, and Ekron. 
As soon as the people saw the pillar of cloud at the door of the Tent, they would bow down. 
and Eliab son of Helon was in command of the tribe of Zebulun. 
But you must not let him go unpunished. You know what to do, and you must see to it that he is put to death.” 
Ever since I have known you, you have rebelled against the LORD. 
Now I am sending you to the king of Egypt so that you can lead my people out of his country.” 
and to his people he sent down birds, : as many as the grains of sand on the shore; 
They were given the city of Arba (Arba was Anak's father), now called Hebron, in the hill country of Judah, along with the pasture land surrounding it. 
A false accusation is as deadly as a sword, a club, or a sharp arrow. 
He aimed his arrows at us like an enemy; : He killed all those who were our joy and delight. : Here in Jerusalem we felt his burning anger. 
You yourselves are the letter we have, written on our hearts for everyone to know and read. 
Let other people praise you — even strangers; never do it yourself. 
He brought the tribe of Judah forward, clan by clan, and the clan of Zerah was picked out. Then he brought the clan of Zerah forward, family by family, and the family of Zabdi was picked out. 
The king's prayer and God's answer to it, and an account of the sins he committed before he repented — the evil he did, the pagan places of worship and the symbols of the goddess Asherah that he made and the idols that he worshipped — are all recorded in The History of the Prophets. 
Now they are dead and will not live again; : their ghosts will not rise, : for you have punished them and destroyed them. : No one remembers them any more. 
Every river flows into the sea, but the sea is not yet full. The water returns to where the rivers began, and starts all over again. 
Jerusalem and all the towns of Judah, together with its kings and leaders, were made to drink from it, so that they would become a desert, a terrible and shocking sight, and so that people would use their name as a curse — as they still do. 
For not only did the message about the Lord go out from you throughout Macedonia and Achaia, but the news about your faith in God has gone everywhere. There is nothing, then, that we need to say. 
Avoid sin as if it were a snake. If you get too near, it will sink its teeth into your soul like a lion, and destroy you. 
The Levite answered, “We have been to Bethlehem in Judah, and now we are on our way home deep in the hill country of Ephraim. No one will put us up for the night, 
At once the LORD became angry with Uzzah and killed him for touching the box. He died there in God's presence, 
People came to him from Jerusalem, from the whole province of Judea, and from all the country near the River Jordan. 
He said to the people of Israel, “In the future, when your children ask you what these stones mean, 
And now I stand here to be tried because of the hope I have in the promise that God made to our ancestors — 
They will be killed in battle, : and their bodies eaten by wolves. 
and Jesus and his disciples had also been invited to the wedding. 
the priest shall examine him again. If the sore has spread, he need not look for yellowish hairs; the person is obviously unclean. 
All who heard it were amazed at what the shepherds said. 
“May the God of our ancestors bless you and make your plan successful, so that you may bring glory to Jerusalem and victory to Israel.” : Judith prayed 
But the leaders of Sukkoth said, “Why should we give your army any food? You haven't captured Zebah and Zalmunna yet.” 
Hushai answered, “The advice Ahithophel gave you this time is no good. 
He will punish his enemies according to what they have done, even those who live in distant lands. 
“Let Ziba have it all,” Mephibosheth answered. “It's enough for me that Your Majesty has come home safely.” 
you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.” 
This is how we know what love is: Christ gave his life for us. We too, then, ought to give our lives for our brothers and sisters! 
He led the people out of Egypt, performing miracles and wonders in Egypt and at the Red Sea and for forty years in the desert. 
Don't sit down to eat with another man's wife or join her for a drink. You may give in to the temptation of her charms and be destroyed by your passion. 
Shall we say, then, that the Law itself is sinful? Of course not! But it was the Law that made me know what sin is. If the Law had not said, “Do not desire what belongs to someone else,” I would not have known such a desire. 
Your Majesty, you are the greatest of all kings. The God of heaven has made you emperor and given you power, might, and honour. 
Their brave soldiers have been stripped of all they had : and now are sleeping the sleep of death; : all their strength and skill was useless. 
Gilead is a city full of evil people and murderers. 
to reveal his Son to me, so that I might preach the Good News about him to the Gentiles, I did not go to anyone for advice, 
I mourn and wear clothes made of sackcloth, : and I sit here in the dust defeated. 
The men of Ephraim prepared for battle; they crossed the River Jordan to Zaphon and said to Jephthah, “Why did you cross the border to fight the Ammonites without calling us to go with you? We'll burn the house down over your head!” 
So I am convinced that we should enjoy ourselves, because the only pleasure we have in this life is eating and drinking and enjoying ourselves. We can at least do this as we labour during the life that God has given us in this world. 
Azmaveth — 42 
“He is really John the Baptist, who has come back to life,” he told his officials. “That is why he has this power to perform miracles.” 
I let them defile themselves with their own offerings, and I let them sacrifice their firstborn sons. This was to punish them and show them that I am the LORD. 
But you must not lay down conditions for the Lord our God! Do you think that he is like one of us? Do you think you can bargain with him or force him to make a decision? 
If at any time I say that I am going to uproot, break down, or destroy any nation or kingdom, 
So I poured out my anger and fury on the towns of Judah and on the streets of Jerusalem, and I set them on fire. They were left in ruins and became a horrifying sight, as they are today. 
Ahimelech answered, “David is the most faithful officer you have! He is your own son-in-law, captain of your bodyguard, and highly respected by everyone in the royal court. 
There is one regulation that applies to both the sin offering and the repayment offering: the meat belongs to the priest who offers the sacrifice. 
I know that the king of Egypt will not let you go unless he is forced to do so. 
“Men of Israel!” they shouted. “Help! This is the man who goes everywhere teaching everyone against the people of Israel, the Law of Moses, and this Temple. And now he has even brought some Gentiles into the Temple and defiled this holy place!” 
But if you do not drive out the inhabitants of the land, those that are left will be as troublesome as splinters in your eyes and thorns in your sides, and they will fight against you. 
I am going to scatter the Egyptians throughout the world. 
The king ignored the advice of the older men and spoke harshly to the people, 
A selfish person is evil; he turns his back on people's needs 
Moses obeyed, and registered all the firstborn males 
they love to be greeted with respect in the market places and to be called ‘Teacher’.  
My teaching will fall like drops of rain : and form on the earth like dew. : My words will fall like showers on young plants, : like gentle rain on tender grass. 
You never know when your time is coming. Like birds suddenly caught in a trap, like fish caught in a net, we are trapped at some evil moment when we least expect it. 
when we are insulted, we answer with kind words. We are no more than this world's refuse; we are the scum of the earth to this very moment! 
Because King Ahaz of Judah had violated the rights of his people and had defied the LORD, the LORD brought troubles on Judah. 
The LORD said, “I am going to destroy everything on earth, 
On the first day of the festival you are to gather for worship, and no work is to be done. 
So at harvest time I will take back my gifts of corn and wine, and will take away the wool and the linen I gave her for clothing. 
Never lose your head over a woman's beauty, and don't try to win a woman because she is wealthy.  
The LORD keeps close watch over the whole world, to give strength to those whose hearts are loyal to him. You have acted foolishly, and so from now on you will always be at war.” 
He sets the time for love and the time for hate, : the time for war and the time for peace. 
Our princes were undefiled and pure as snow, : vigorous and strong, glowing with health. 
The more easily you get your wealth, the less good it will do you. 
It began as the prophet Isaiah had written: : “God said, ‘I will send my messenger ahead of you : to clear the way for you.’ 
By the seventh day God finished what he had been doing and stopped working. 
He shall put both his hands on the goat's head and confess over it all the evils, sins, and rebellions of the people of Israel, and so transfer them to the goat's head. Then the goat is to be driven off into the desert by someone appointed to do it. 
These are the laws about dreaded skin diseases; 
Many of the people contributed to help pay the cost of restoring the Temple: : The governor : 8 kilogrammes of gold : 50 ceremonial bowls : 530 robes for priests : Heads of clans : 168 kilogrammes of gold : 1.25 tonnes of silver : The rest of the people : 168 kilogrammes of gold : 140 kilogrammes of silver : 67 robes for priests 
But a widow who gives herself to pleasure has already died, even though she lives. 
And then he says, “I will not remember their sins and evil deeds any longer.” 
The prophet Jeremiah composed a lament for King Josiah. It has become a custom in Israel for the singers, both men and women, to use this song when they mourn for him. The song is found in the collection of laments. 
He shall take some of the oil that is in the palm of his hand and some of the blood of the lamb and put them on the lobe of the right ear, on the thumb of the right-hand, and on the big toe of the right foot of the one who is to be declared ritually clean. 
And if the Jews abandon their unbelief, they will be put back in the place where they were; for God is able to do that. 
When, in the beginning, the Lord created human beings, he left them free to do as they wished. 
There the border turned west to Aznoth Tabor, from there to Hukkok, touching Zebulun on the south, Asher on the west, and the Jordan on the east. 
The price is to be fixed according to the number of years the land can produce crops before the next Year of Restoration. 
For this very reason do your best to add goodness to your faith; to your goodness add knowledge; 
The enemy army has captured the city of Ai! They have passed through Migron! They left their supplies at Michmash! 
He saved us and called us to be his own people, not because of what we have done, but because of his own purpose and grace. He gave us this grace by means of Christ Jesus before the beginning of time, 
If someone brings a lawsuit against you and takes you to court, do your best to settle the dispute with them before you get to court. If you don't, they will drag you before the judge, who will hand you over to the police, and you will be put in jail.  
“If you obey the LORD your God and do everything he commands, he will make you his own people, as he has promised. 
An offering of the first corn that you harvest each year shall be brought to the LORD, but it is not to be burnt on the altar. 
It is a terrifying thing to fall into the hands of the living God! 
And now, in obedience to the Holy Spirit I am going to Jerusalem, not knowing what will happen to me there. 
Joshua then read aloud the whole Law, including the blessings and the curses, just as they are written in the book of the Law. 
A righteous man once had to escape from his brother's anger, and Wisdom guided him in the right way. She showed him God's kingdom and allowed him to know about holy things. She made him prosperous and successful in his work. 
Leave the company of ignorant people, and live. Follow the way of knowledge.” 
The LORD says, “Attack the people of Merathaim and of Pekod. Kill and destroy them. Do everything I command you. I, the LORD, have spoken. 
Do not think, however, that I am the one who will accuse you to my Father. Moses, in whom you have put your hope, is the very one who will accuse you.  
Let them shout aloud as they praise God, : with their sharp swords in their hands 
And I saw the dead, great and small alike, standing before the throne. Books were opened, and then another book was opened, the book of the living. The dead were judged according to what they had done, as recorded in the books. 
If you fear the Lord, honour and pride will be yours; : you will be crowned with happiness and joy. 
Moses took some of the anointing oil and some of the blood that was on the altar and sprinkled them on Aaron and his sons and on their clothes. In this way he consecrated them and their clothes to the LORD. 
Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. 
The Son of Man will die as God has decided, but how terrible for that man who betrays him!” 
he bought you for a price. So use your bodies for God's glory.
If it is, you have a bright future. 
They even tried to stop us from preaching to the Gentiles the message that would bring them salvation. In this way they have brought to completion all the sins they have always committed. And now God's anger has at last come down on them! 
You could have allowed the righteous to destroy those ungodly people in battle; you could have wiped them out immediately with wild animals or with one harsh command. 
I will give you rulers and advisers like those you had long ago. Then Jerusalem will be called the righteous, faithful city.” 
So the foolish women went off to buy some oil; and while they were gone, the bridegroom arrived. The five who were ready went in with him to the wedding feast, and the door was closed. 
After three days Paul called the local Jewish leaders to a meeting. When they had gathered, he said to them, “My fellow-Israelites, even though I did nothing against our people or the customs that we received from our ancestors, I was made a prisoner in Jerusalem and handed over to the Romans. 
Jacob's well was there, and Jesus, tired out by the journey, sat down by the well. It was about noon. 
Show me a conceited person and I will show you someone who is arrogant, proud, and inconsiderate. 
But perhaps there will be only 45 innocent people instead of fifty. Will you destroy the whole city because there are five too few?” : The LORD answered, “I will not destroy the city if I find 45 innocent people.” 
he shall leave the house and lock it up for seven days. 
Then over Mount Zion and over all who are gathered there, the LORD will send a cloud in the daytime and smoke and a bright flame at night. God's glory will cover and protect the whole city. 
So the next morning Balaam saddled his donkey and went with the Moabite leaders. 
“Now, young people, listen to me. : Do as I say, and you will be happy. 
The great city was split into three parts, and the cities of all countries were destroyed. God remembered great Babylon and made her drink the wine from his cup — the wine of his furious anger. 
The people in the streets are dressed in sackcloth; in the city squares and on the housetops people mourn and cry. 
When her brother Absalom saw her, he asked, “Has Amnon molested you? Please, sister, don't let it upset you so much. He is your half-brother, so don't tell anyone about it.” So Tamar lived in Absalom's house, sad and lonely. 
If someone hears it but pays no attention and the enemy comes and kills him, then he is to blame for his own death. 
She reared a cub and taught him to hunt; : he learnt to eat people. 
Then the signal appeared; a cloud of smoke began to go up from the town. The Benjaminites looked behind them and were amazed to see the whole city going up in flames. 
For some people from Chloe's family have told me quite plainly, my friends, that there are quarrels among you. 
For this reason we have always prayed for you, ever since we heard about you. We ask God to fill you with the knowledge of his will, with all the wisdom and understanding that his Spirit gives. 
We always thank God for you all and always mention you in our prayers. 
You certainly heard about him, and as his followers you were taught the truth that is in Jesus. 
Gedaliah said to them, “I give you my word that there is no need for you to be afraid of the Babylonian officials. Settle in this land, serve the king of Babylonia, and all will go well with you.” 
He said, ‘The God of our ancestors has chosen you to know his will, to see his righteous Servant, and to hear him speaking with his own voice. 
Work and you will earn a living; if you sit around talking you will be poor. 
Then Joshua called together the people of the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh. 
As provisions for your workmen, I will send you 2,000 tonnes of wheat, 2,000 tonnes of barley, 400,000 litres of wine, and 400,000 litres of olive oil.” 
Or have you not read in the Law of Moses that every Sabbath the priests in the Temple actually break the Sabbath law, yet they are not guilty?  
Have you forgotten the encouraging words which God speaks to you as his sons and daughters? : “My child, pay attention when the Lord corrects you, : and do not be discouraged when he rebukes you. 
Then Daniel went to Arioch, commander of the king's bodyguard, who had been ordered to carry out the execution. Choosing his words carefully, 
The traitor had given the crowd a signal: “The man I kiss is the one you want. Arrest him and take him away under guard.” 
The Levites also are to have a special area, south of that of the priests. It too is to be 12.5 kilometres from east to west, by five kilometres from north to south. 
I make plans and carry them out. : I have understanding, and I am strong. 
Once again the Israelites sinned against the LORD by worshipping the Baals and the Astartes, as well as the gods of Syria, of Sidon, of Moab, of Ammon, and of Philistia. They abandoned the LORD and stopped worshipping him. 
These clans numbered 45,400 men. 
I am Raphael, one of the seven angels who stand in the glorious presence of the Lord, ready to serve him.” 
Vicious animals, scorpions, and snakes; : the sword that destroys the wicked; : fire, hail, famine, and disease; : these have all been created as punishments. 
Then Gaal son of Ebed came to Shechem with his brothers, and the men of Shechem put their confidence in him. 
“But because of you people the LORD was angry with me and would not listen. Instead, he said, ‘That's enough! Don't mention this again! 
Tobias asked him, “Father, how much do you think I should pay him? I wouldn't mind giving him half of everything we brought back with us. 
“Remember, LORD, that I have served you faithfully and loyally, and that I have always tried to do what you wanted me to.” And he began to cry bitterly. 
Remember that you were slaves in Egypt, and that I, the LORD your God, rescued you by my great power and strength. That is why I command you to observe the Sabbath. 
These three, who were killed by David and his men, were descendants of the giants at Gath.
Adonibezek said, “Seventy kings with their thumbs and big toes cut off have picked up scraps under my table. God has now done to me what I did to them.” He was taken to Jerusalem, where he died. 
Then the woman went and said to her husband, “A man of God has come to me, and he looked as frightening as the angel of God. I didn't ask him where he came from, and he didn't tell me his name. 
In your anger, use your power to shatter their mighty army. They plan to defile your Temple, where you are worshipped, and to hack off the corners of your altar with their swords. 
Which do you prefer? Shall I come to you with a whip, or in a spirit of love and gentleness?
They made two rings of gold and attached them to the lower corners of the breastpiece, on the inside edge next to the ephod. 
“You have been given the secret of the Kingdom of God,” Jesus answered. “But the others, who are on the outside, hear all things by means of parables,  
But the poor must go out with no clothes to protect them; : they must go hungry while harvesting wheat. 
When they pass through their sea of trouble, : I, the LORD, will strike the waves, : and the depths of the Nile will go dry. : Proud Assyria will be humbled, : and mighty Egypt will lose her power. 
“Now then, my flock, I, the Sovereign LORD, tell you that I will judge each of you and separate the good from the bad, the sheep from the goats. 
Because Jesus Christ did what God wanted him to do, we are all purified from sin by the offering that he made of his own body once and for all. 
How can a farmhand gain knowledge, when his only ambition is to drive the oxen and make them work, when all he is able to talk about is livestock? 
I am afraid that the next time I come my God will humiliate me in your presence, and I shall weep over many who sinned in the past and have not repented of the immoral things they have done — their lust and their sexual sins.
Love never gives up; and its faith, hope, and patience never fail. 
About midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the other prisoners were listening to them. 
They are all glad to obey the Lord's command : and are ready to serve him here on earth. : When their times of duty come, : they never disobey. 
The king said to Joseph, “Now that your father and your brothers have arrived, 
and he forgets what you have done to him. Then I will send someone to bring you back. Why should I lose both my sons on the same day?” 
So they brought their livestock to Joseph, and he gave them food in exchange for their horses, sheep, goats, cattle, and donkeys. That year he supplied them with food in exchange for all their livestock. 
“Stop giving the people straw for making bricks. Make them go and find it for themselves. 
Then the king gave orders for all his officials to come together — the princes, governors, lieutenant-governors, commissioners, treasurers, judges, magistrates, and all the other officials of the provinces. They were to attend the dedication of the statue which King Nebuchadnezzar had set up. 
He put 70,000 men to work transporting materials, and 80,000 to work quarrying stone. There were 3,600 others responsible for supervising the work. 
I do not claim that I have already succeeded or have already become perfect. I keep striving to win the prize for which Christ Jesus has already won me to himself. 
His wife Jezebel went to him and asked, “Why are you so depressed? Why won't you eat?” 
So I solemnly declare to you this very day: if any of you should be lost, I am not responsible. 
If you get rich by charging interest and taking advantage of people, your wealth will go to someone who is kind to the poor. 
When I kill these people like sacrifices, the birds and animals are to eat all the fat they can hold and to drink blood until they are drunk. 
And suppose your friend should answer from inside, ‘Don't bother me! The door is already locked, and my children and I are in bed. I can't get up and give you anything.’  
to shatter horses and riders, : to shatter chariots and their drivers, 
You were doing so well! Who made you stop obeying the truth? How did he persuade you? 
This is the list of those who administered the royal property: : Royal storerooms: Azmaveth son of Adiel : Local storerooms: Jonathan son of Uzziah : Farm labour: Ezri son of Chelub : Vineyards: Shimei from Ramah : Wine cellars: Zabdi from Shepham : Olives and sycomore trees (in the western foothills): Baal Hanan from Geder : Olive oil storage: Joash : Cattle in the Plain of Sharon: Shirtai from Sharon : Cattle in the valleys: Shaphat son of Adlai : Camels: Obil, an Ishmaelite : Donkeys: Jehdeiah from Meronoth : Sheep and goats: Jaziz, a Hagrite 
The more you worry, the more likely you are to have bad dreams, and the more you talk, the more likely you are to say something foolish. 
As the scripture says, “The one who gathered much did not have too much, and the one who gathered little did not have too little.” 
Jonathan climbed up out of the pass on his hands and knees, and the young man followed him. Jonathan attacked the Philistines and knocked them down, and the young man killed them. 
Storms come, and the wicked are blown away, but honest people are always safe. 
You became famous in every nation for your perfect beauty, because I was the one who made you so lovely.” This is what the Sovereign LORD says. 
Judah and his sons: Shelah, Perez, and Zerah. (Judah's other sons, Er and Onan, had died in Canaan.) Perez' sons were Hezron and Hamul. 
Now, as for the dead being raised: haven't you ever read in the Book of Moses the passage about the burning bush? There it is written that God said to Moses, ‘I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.’  
Jonathan had two sons, Peleth and Zaza. All these were descendants of Jerahmeel. 
But there was a famine in Canaan, and it was so bad that Abram went farther south to Egypt, to live there for a while. 
“How can a grown man be born again?” Nicodemus asked. “He certainly cannot enter his mother's womb and be born a second time!” 
I am going to give you and your descendants all the land that you see, and it will be yours for ever. 
“When we arrived at the jail, we found it locked up tight and all the guards on watch at the gates; but when we opened the gates, we found no one inside!” 
Then Samuel took a jar of olive oil and poured it on Saul's head, kissed him, and said, “The LORD anoints you as ruler of his people Israel. You will rule his people and protect them from all their enemies. And this is the proof to you that the LORD has chosen you to be the ruler of his people
He used 35 kilogrammes of pure gold to make the lampstand and all its equipment. 
Now if you are, tell me your plans, so that I may serve you and continue to please you. Remember also that you have chosen this nation to be your own.” 
and the young man lost no time in doing what was suggested, because he was in love with Jacob's daughter. He was the most important member of his family. 
“Listen,” he told them, “we are going up to Jerusalem where the Son of Man will be handed over to the chief priests and the teachers of the Law. They will condemn him to death and then hand him over to the Gentiles,  
They brought to Moses the Tent and all its equipment, its hooks, its frames, its crossbars, its posts, and its bases; 
‘These men who were hired last worked only one hour,’ they said, ‘while we put up with a whole day's work in the hot sun — yet you paid them the same as you paid us!’ 
Paul travelled on to Derbe and Lystra, where a Christian named Timothy lived. His mother, who was also a Christian, was Jewish, but his father was a Greek. 
For Herod had earlier ordered John's arrest, and he had him chained and put in prison. He had done this because of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife. 
Some Pharisees and some members of Herod's party were sent to Jesus to trap him with questions. 
Their bodies were taken to Shechem, where they were buried in the grave which Abraham had bought from the clan of Hamor for a sum of money. 
Show sympathy to those who have lost a loved one, and mourn with them. 
Everybody kept on eating and drinking, and men and women married, up to the very day Noah went into the boat and the flood came and killed them all.  
The shouts of the drowning sailors : Echoed on the shore. 
but later I passed by, and he wasn't there; : I looked for him, but couldn't find him. 
Your wives, your children, and your livestock will stay here, but your soldiers, armed for battle, will cross over ahead of their fellow-Israelites in order to help them 
But I said, ‘Certainly not, Lord! No ritually unclean or defiled food has ever entered my mouth.’ 
I will also bring back the king of Judah, Jehoiachin son of Jehoiakim, along with all the people of Judah who went into exile in Babylonia. Yes, I will break the power of the king of Babylonia. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
After Saul became king of Israel, he fought against all his enemies everywhere: the people of Moab, of Ammon, and of Edom, the kings of Zobah, and the Philistines. Wherever he fought he was victorious.  
In either case the man shall take his wife to the priest. He shall also take the required offering of one kilogramme of barley flour, but he shall not pour any olive oil on it or put any incense on it, because it is an offering from a suspicious husband, made to bring the truth to light. 
Every house, of course, is built by someone — and God is the one who has built all things. 
Asa prayed to the LORD his God, “O LORD, you can help a weak army as easily as a powerful one. Help us now, O LORD our God, because we are relying on you, and in your name we have come out to fight against this huge army. LORD, you are our God; no one can hope to defeat you.” 
He is not like other high priests; he does not need to offer sacrifices every day for his own sins first and then for the sins of the people. He offered one sacrifice, once and for all, when he offered himself. 
They took heart, and every one of them also ate some food. 
When they stepped ashore, they saw a charcoal fire there with fish on it and some bread. 
Raguel embraced Tobias and sent them on their way with his blessing, “Goodbye, my son. Have a safe journey. May the Lord of heaven protect you and Sarah. And may I live to see your children.” 
They did what they were told: they took two cows and hitched them to the wagon, and shut the calves in the barn. 
Amram had two sons, Aaron and Moses, and one daughter, Miriam. : Aaron had four sons: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
She keeps herself busy making wool and linen cloth. 
If he is poor, do not keep it overnight; 
Some of you are not satisfied with eating the best grass; you even trample down what you don't eat! You drink the clear water and muddy what you don't drink! 
“To the angel of the church in Laodicea write: :   “This is the message from the Amen, the faithful and true witness, who is the origin    of all that God has created.  
For this reason I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus for the sake of you Gentiles, pray to God. 
It is the LORD who has kept you from taking revenge and killing your enemies. And now I swear to you by the living LORD that your enemies and all who want to harm you will be punished like Nabal. 
The teachers of the Law and the chief priests tried to arrest Jesus on the spot, because they knew that he had told this parable against them; but they were afraid of the people. 
Solomon sent back this message to Hiram
Don't try to lift something too heavy for you, and don't keep company with people who are richer and more powerful than you. You cannot keep a clay pot next to an iron kettle; the pot will break if it hits the kettle. 
In the same manner Christ also was offered in sacrifice once to take away the sins of many. He will appear a second time, not to deal with sin, but to save those who are waiting for him.
They were proud and stubborn and did the things that I hate, so I destroyed them, as you well know. 
So Adonizedek sent the following message to King Hoham of Hebron, King Piram of Jarmuth, King Japhia of Lachish, and to King Debir of Eglon
But some Jews from the province of Asia were there; they themselves ought to come before you and make their accusations if they have anything against me. 
The LORD saves the righteous : and protects them in times of trouble. 
Now, I told you that you have seen me but will not believe.  
For we each have our own load to carry. 
Others will sit at your table as long as things are going well; they will stick to you like your shadow and give orders to your servants, but they will not stand by you in trouble. 
Those were the days when I was prosperous, : and the friendship of God protected my home. 
I fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to me, ‘Saul, Saul! Why do you persecute me?’  
As long as it is day, we must keep on doing the work of him who sent me; night is coming when no one can work.  
When you see a good-looking woman, look the other way; don't let your mind dwell on the beauty of any woman who is not your wife. Many men have been led astray by a woman's beauty. It kindles passion as if it were fire. 
So many troubles have fallen on me : that I am close to death. 
“My son Joseph is still alive!” he said. “This is all I could ask for! I must go and see him before I die.”
You may be wise, but if you cheat someone, you are acting like a fool. If you take a bribe, you ruin your character. 
“When you command your people to go into battle against their enemies and they pray to you, wherever they are, facing this city which you have chosen and this Temple which I have built for you, 
This happened in order to make what the prophet had said come true
These are what all creatures, both human and animal, must face (but it is seven times worse for sinners)
You chose them from all the peoples to be your own people, as you told them through your servant Moses when you brought our ancestors out of Egypt.” 
And you also became God's people when you heard the true message, the Good News that brought you salvation. You believed in Christ, and God put his stamp of ownership on you by giving you the Holy Spirit he had promised. 
When David returned to Ziklag, he sent part of the loot to his friends, the leaders of Judah, with the message, “Here is a present for you from the loot we took from the LORD's enemies.” 
Now then, as soon as you hear the sound of the trumpets, oboes, lyres, zithers, harps, and all the other instruments, bow down and worship the statue. If you do not, you will immediately be thrown into a blazing furnace. Do you think there is any god who can save you?” 
One of them, Zedekiah son of Chenaanah, made iron horns and said to Ahab, “This is what the LORD says: ‘With these you will fight the Syrians and totally defeat them.’ ” 
Dan: 28,600 trained men; 
The words of good people are wise, : and they are always fair. 
When David heard what was happening, he sent out Joab and the whole army. 
Before you start fighting, a priest is to come forward and say to the army, 
Do not lose your courage, then, because it brings with it a great reward. 
So Manoah took a young goat and some grain, and offered them on the rock altar to the LORD who works wonders.  
“But all his relatives and dependants will become a burden to him. They will hang on him like pots and bowls hanging from a peg! 
Christ is the visible likeness of the invisible God. He is the firstborn Son, superior to all created things. 
to say to the people of Israel, “Choose the cities of refuge that I commanded Moses to tell you about. 
Listen to me, LORD, and answer me, : for I am helpless and weak. 
I will scatter the corpses of the people of Israel; I will scatter their bones all round the altars. 
He went over to her at the side of the road and said, “All right, how much do you charge?” (He did not know that she was his daughter-in-law.) : She said, “What will you give me?” 
Some teachers of the Law and some Pharisees wanted a reason to accuse Jesus of doing wrong, so they watched him closely to see if he would heal on the Sabbath. 
Sometimes the cloud remained only from evening until morning, and they moved on as soon as the cloud lifted. Whenever the cloud lifted, they moved on. 
There were many women there, looking on from a distance, who had followed Jesus from Galilee and helped him. 
During all this time devout people from this righteous nation were secretly offering sacrifices, giving their word to each other that they would keep God's law and share each other's blessings and dangers. Already they were chanting those ancient hymns of praise. 
But we did not go near the territory of the Ammonites or to the banks of the River Jabbok or to the towns of the hill country or to any other place where the LORD our God had commanded us not to go.
“ ‘God's curse on anyone who secretly commits murder.’ : “And all the people will answer, ‘Amen!’ 
because the payment for a human life is too great. : What he could pay would never be enough 
The young man saw that Saul was dead, so he too threw himself on his sword and died. 
The Lord is taking note of your sins, and if you take vengeance on someone, the Lord will take vengeance on you. 
Ahaz became king at the age of twenty, and he ruled in Jerusalem for sixteen years. He did not follow the good example of his ancestor King David; instead, he did what was not pleasing to the LORD  
Be wise in the way you act towards those who are not believers, making good use of every opportunity you have. 
“Soon after the trouble of those days, the sun will grow dark, the moon will no longer shine, the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers in space will be driven from their courses.  
May he send you help from his Temple : and give you aid from Mount Zion. 
“Then bring them here to me,” Jesus said. 
The king's officials said to Achish, “Isn't this David, the king of his country? This is the man about whom the women sang, as they danced, ‘Saul has killed thousands, but David has killed tens of thousands.’ ” 
The king went back home to Samaria, worried and depressed.
The tank rested on the backs of twelve bronze bulls that faced outwards, three facing in each direction. 
Praise the LORD, my soul! : All my being, praise his holy name! 
After a while the brook dried up because of the lack of rain. 
Remember me, LORD, when you help your people; : include me when you save them. 
but Jesus called the children to him and said, “Let the children come to me and do not stop them, because the Kingdom of God belongs to such as these.  
The LORD is king for ever and ever. : Those who worship other gods : will vanish from his land. 
Charm is deceptive and beauty disappears, but a woman who honours the LORD should be praised. 
So God created the great sea monsters, all kinds of creatures that live in the water, and all kinds of birds. And God was pleased with what he saw. 
So help your neighbour as much as you can, but protect yourself against the dangers involved. 
The LORD Almighty has ordered these kings to cut down trees and build mounds in order to besiege Jerusalem. He has said, “I will punish this city because it is full of oppression. 
To God's people in Colossae, who are our faithful brothers and sisters in union with Christ: : May God our Father give you grace and peace. 
Then King Jehoash of Israel defeated Benhadad three times and recaptured the cities that had been taken by Benhadad during the reign of Jehoahaz, the father of Jehoash.
The king asked them, “What is your occupation?” : “We are shepherds, sir, just as our ancestors were,” they answered. 
from the attacks of the wicked. : Deadly enemies surround me; 
Gossip is so tasty — how we love to swallow it! 
Then many false prophets will appear and deceive many people.  
Small stones on top of a wall will not stay put when the wind blows, and a person whose stupid ideas have made him timid will not be able to stand up to frightening situations. 
“Do not spread false rumours, and do not help a guilty person by giving false evidence. 
But we would like to hear your ideas, because we know that everywhere people speak against this party to which you belong.” 
Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar did what the LORD had told them to do, and the LORD answered Job's prayer. 
The LORD then said to Moses, “Raise your hand towards the sky, and a darkness thick enough to be felt will cover the land of Egypt.” 
So now, my children, you see what happens to those who show their concern for others, and how death awaits those who treat others unjustly. But now I am very weak.” : Then they laid Tobit on his bed. He died and was given an honourable burial. 
The LORD said to me, 
Then Sarah stood by the window, raised her arms in prayer, and said: : “God of mercy, worthy of our praise, : may your name always be honoured, : may all your creation praise you for ever. 
Stupidity is like a loud, ignorant, shameless woman.  
Then anoint Aaron and his sons, and ordain them as priests in my service. 
Zebadiah, Arad, Eder, 
When they had finished the meal, and it was time to go to bed, Sarah's parents led young Tobias to the bedroom. 
Amaziah then said to Amos, “That's enough, prophet! Go on back to Judah and do your preaching there. Let them pay you for it. 
Because I am merciful, I will make him have mercy on you and let you go back home. I, the LORD, have spoken.’ 
Then Holofernes crossed the River Euphrates and marched through the land of Mesopotamia, completely destroying all the walled towns along the River Abron as far as the sea. 
“The time is coming,” says the LORD, “when all Jerusalem will be rebuilt as my city, from Hananel Tower west to the Corner Gate. 
the women should keep quiet in the meetings. They are not allowed to speak; as the Jewish Law says, they must not be in charge. 
Use true and honest weights and measures, so that you may live a long time in the land that the LORD your God is giving you. 
We kept close to the coast and with great difficulty came to a place called Safe Harbours, not far from the town of Lasea. 
Peter answered, “I will never leave you, even though all the rest do!” 
What else have I in heaven but you? : Since I have you, what else could I want on earth? 
One day, when he was worshipping in the temple of his god Nisroch, two of his sons, Adrammelech and Sharezer, killed him with their swords, and then escaped to the land of Ararat. Another of his sons, Esarhaddon, succeeded him as emperor.
Your righteousness, God, reaches the skies. : You have done great things; : there is no one like you. 
Show me a righteous ruler and I will show you a happy people. Show me a wicked ruler and I will show you a miserable people. 
In the same way your light must shine before people, so that they will see the good things you do and praise your Father in heaven. 
I will rescue my people from the lands where they have been taken, 
A large family is nothing to be desired if the children are worthless. Godless children are nothing to be proud of. 
The priest shall burn all the fat on the altar as a food offering to the LORD. It is a repayment offering. 
“Then why do I see four men walking about in the fire?” he asked. “They are not tied up, and they show no sign of being hurt — and the fourth one looks like an angel.” 
O LORD, tear the sky apart and come down; : touch the mountains, and they will pour out smoke. 
Now I will make you as stubborn and as tough as they are. 
Job, will you be annoyed if I speak? : I can't keep quiet any longer. 
Then Rebecca and her young women got ready and mounted the camels to go with Abraham's servant, and they all started out. 
You made us run from our enemies, : and they took for themselves what was ours. 
Next, the man took me into the central room, the Holy Place. He measured the passage leading into it: it was three metres deep  
They will be driven out of the land of the living, : driven from light into darkness. 
And you! You try to comfort me with nonsense! : Every answer you give is a lie!
But Jesus answered, “When the sun is setting, you say, ‘We are going to have fine weather, because the sky is red.’  
Eat it in a holy place; it is the part that belongs to you and your sons from the food offered to the LORD. That is what the LORD commanded me. 
I sent Tychicus to Ephesus. 
Praise the LORD, the God of Israel; : praise him now and for ever! : Let everyone say, “Amen!” : Praise the LORD!
The land round Tappuah belonged to Manasseh, but the town of Tappuah, on the border, belonged to the descendants of Ephraim. 
because the LORD your God is like a flaming fire; he tolerates no rivals. 
When the LORD commanded the man wearing linen clothes to take some fire from between the wheels that were under the creatures, the man went in and stood by one of the wheels. 
God has not placed the angels as rulers over the new world to come — the world of which we speak. 
But he will bless me and he will make David's kingdom secure for ever.” 
Then Job stood up and tore his clothes in grief. He shaved his head and threw himself face downwards on the ground. 
My child, don't live the life of a beggar; it is better to die than to beg. 
after that, he lived another 200 years and had other children. 
I will comfort you in Jerusalem, as a mother comforts her child. 
I told it, “So far and no farther! : Here your powerful waves must stop.” 
Every morning and evening they were to burn sacrifices whole on the altar in accordance with what was written in the Law which the LORD gave to Israel. 
Later on the king said to Joab, “I have decided to do what you want. Go and get the young man Absalom and bring him back here.” 
They are not all apostles or prophets or teachers. Not everyone has the power to work miracles 
Repeat these words in praise to the LORD, : all you whom he has saved. : He has rescued you from your enemies 
as you help us by means of your prayers for us. So it will be that the many prayers for us will be answered, and God will bless us; and many will raise their voices to him in thanksgiving for us. 
Only Luke is with me. Get Mark and bring him with you, because he can help me in the work. 
While they were serving the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said to them, “Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul, to do the work to which I have called them.” 
The LORD Almighty says, “The people of Israel and of Judah are oppressed. All who captured them are guarding them closely and will not let them go. 
Give to religious people, but don't help sinners. 
Over the wine the king asked her, “Tell me what you want, and you shall have it. I will grant your request, even if you ask for half my empire.” 
All these kings joined forces and came together and set up camp at Merom Brook to fight against Israel. 
He was king in Jerusalem over all Israel for forty years. 
Everyone ate and had enough. 
their hearts pour out evil, : and their minds are busy with wicked schemes. 
He might cut down cedars to use, or choose oak or cypress wood from the forest. Or he might plant a laurel-tree and wait for the rain to make it grow. 
She took a tent peg in one hand, : a workman's hammer in the other; : she struck Sisera and crushed his skull; : she pierced him through the head. 
These cities and their towns were in the land which the families of the tribe of Asher received as their possession. 
So he preached in the synagogues throughout the country.
“No,” she said. “Don't force me to do such a degrading thing! That's awful! 
He shall put his hand on its head and kill it on the north side of the altar, where the animals for the burnt offerings are killed. 
His three eldest sons had gone with Saul to war. The eldest was Eliab, the next was Abinadab, and the third was Shammah. 
When the people who were taken away as prisoners from Jerusalem to Babylonia want to bring a curse on someone, they will say, ‘May the LORD treat you like Zedekiah and Ahab, whom the king of Babylonia roasted alive!’ 
David asked the men who were near him, “What will the man get who kills this Philistine and frees Israel from this disgrace? After all, who is this heathen Philistine to defy the army of the living God?” 
Teach us how short our life is, : so that we may become wise. 
This is the law for the one who has a dreaded skin disease but who cannot afford the normal offerings required for his purification. 
At night thieves break into houses, : but by day they hide and avoid the light. 
Make two more gold rings and attach them to the lower part of the front of the two shoulder straps of the ephod near the seam and above the finely woven belt. 
My life has been useless, but in it I have seen everything. Some good people may die while others live on, even though they are evil. 
He went to register with Mary, who was promised in marriage to him. She was pregnant, 
“The LORD will curse your corn crops and the food you prepare from them. 
This is the message which he told them to give Isaiah: “Today is a day of suffering; we are being punished and are in disgrace. We are like a woman who is ready to give birth, but is too weak to do it. 
At that time the LORD will protect those who live in Jerusalem, and even the weakest among them will become as strong as David was. The descendants of David will lead them like the angel of the LORD, like God himself. 
The people of the northern tribes sent for him, and they all went together to Rehoboam and said to him, 
In a loud voice they took an oath in the LORD's name that they would keep the covenant, and then they shouted and blew trumpets. 
The land in which they lived extended from Mesha to Sephar in the eastern hill country. 
We spent a long time there, until it became dangerous to continue the voyage, for by now the Day of Atonement was already past. So Paul gave them this advice
David stood before them and addressed them: “My friends, listen to me. I wanted to build a permanent home for the Covenant Box, the footstool of the LORD our God. I have made preparations for building a temple to honour him, 
Anyone who says something against the Son of Man can be forgiven; but whoever says something against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven — now or ever. 
While they were on their way home, David was told: “Absalom has killed all your sons — not one of them is left!” 
I tell you this,” Jesus added, “prophets are never welcomed in their home town. 
How terrible it will be for you that have such an easy life in Zion and for you that feel safe in Samaria — you great leaders of this great nation Israel, you to whom the people go for help! 
“How terrible for you, teachers of the Law and Pharisees! You hypocrites! You clean the outside of your cup and plate, while the inside is full of what you have obtained by violence and selfishness.  
Arrogant people have nothing but scorn for the humble, and the rich think of the poor in the same way. 
But if we say ‘From human beings,’ this whole crowd here will stone us, because they are convinced that John was a prophet.” 
He built a temple to Baal in Samaria, made an altar for him, and put it in the temple. 
The LORD is king. : He is clothed with majesty and strength. : The earth is set firmly in place : and cannot be moved. 
He shot his arrows deep into my body. 
The wicked plot against good people : and glare at them with hate. 
I have no right to boast just because I preach the gospel. After all, I am under orders to do so. And how terrible it would be for me if I did not preach the gospel! 
The LORD is good; : his love is eternal : and his faithfulness lasts for ever.
and as soon as I had finished all that the LORD had commanded me to speak, they seized me and shouted, “You ought to be killed for this! 
The LORD says, “At that time I will take away your horses and destroy your chariots. 
But today you turned against my father's family. You killed his sons — seventy men on a single stone — and just because Abimelech, his son by his servant woman, is your relative, you have made him king of Shechem. 
The LORD will defend his people; : he will take pity on his servants. 
The good man's children will be powerful in the land; : his descendants will be blessed. 
For Moses said, ‘The Lord your God will send you a prophet, just as he sent me, and he will be one of your own people. You are to obey everything that he tells you to do. 
And you will be known as the priests of the LORD, : The servants of our God. : You will enjoy the wealth of the nations : And be proud that it is yours. 
A time is coming when the LORD Almighty will receive offerings from this land divided by rivers, this strong and powerful nation, this tall and smooth-skinned people, who are feared all over the world. They will come to Mount Zion, where the LORD Almighty is worshipped.
I am ready to make an agreement with you. Let us make a pile of stones to remind us of our agreement.” 
Gilead's sister Hammolecheth had three sons: Ishod, Abiezer, and Mahlah. 
So they filled in all the wells which the servants of his father Abraham had dug while Abraham was alive. 
God saw what they did; he saw that they had given up their wicked behaviour. So he changed his mind and did not punish them as he had said he would.
They will speak of the glory of your royal power : and tell of your might, 
The people she worked for would pay her when she delivered the cloth. One spring day, she cut a finished piece of cloth from the loom and took it to the people who had ordered it. They paid her the full price and also gave her a goat. 
The judges will investigate the case thoroughly; and if someone has made a false accusation against a fellow-Israelite, 
I will punish Bel, the god of Babylonia, and make him give up his stolen goods; the nations will not worship him any more. : “Babylon's walls have fallen. 
But Peter denied it, “Woman, I don't even know him!” 
He makes me sure-footed as a deer; : he keeps me safe on the mountains. 
The angel of the LORD met Hagar at a spring in the desert on the road to Shur 
One of his attendants said, “Jesse, of the town of Bethlehem, has a son who is a good musician. He is also a brave and handsome man, a good soldier, and an able speaker. The LORD is with him.” 
You anointed a king to be the instrument of that punishment, and a prophet to take your place. 
When the king heard the book being read, he tore his clothes in dismay 
Gideon son of Joash died at a ripe old age and was buried in the tomb of his father Joash, at Ophrah, the town of the clan of Abiezer. 
“My father is Bethuel son of Nahor and Milcah,” she answered. 
Through God's grace they sent us Sherebiah, an able man, a Levite from the clan of Mahli, and eighteen of his sons and brothers came with him. 
He will save Jerusalem : and rebuild the towns of Judah. : His people will live there and possess the land; 
Holofernes said to Judith, “Don't worry; there's no need for you to be afraid. I have never hurt anyone who was willing to serve Nebuchadnezzar, king of the whole world. 
I accomplished great things. I built myself houses and planted vineyards. 
My days race by, not one of them good. 
All winged insects are unclean, 
Now go home and have a feast. Share your food and wine with those who haven't enough. Today is holy to our Lord, so don't be sad. The joy that the LORD gives you will make you strong.” 
The LORD's angel appeared to her and said, “You have never been able to have children, but you will soon be pregnant and have a son. 
What should I do, then? I will pray with my spirit, but I will pray also with my mind; I will sing with my spirit, but I will sing also with my mind. 
Our bodies will return to the dust of the earth, and the breath of life will go back to God, who gave it to us. 
You give such good advice : and share your knowledge with a fool like me! 
The sons of Ishmael became the heads of twelve tribes: Nebaioth (from the name of Ishmael's eldest son), Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam, 
They will be taken to Babylonia and will remain there until I turn my attention to them. Then I will bring them back and restore them to this place. I, the LORD, have spoken.”
‘A descendant of yours will always be king; : I will preserve your dynasty for ever.’ ” 
And pray also for me, that God will give me a message when I am ready to speak, so that I may speak boldly and make known the gospel's secret. 
He would get up early and go and stand by the road at the city gate. Whenever someone came there with a dispute that he wanted the king to settle, Absalom would call him over and ask him where he was from. And after the man had told him what tribe he was from, 
Dannah, Kiriath Sepher (or Debir), 
He began to think to himself, ‘I haven't anywhere to keep all my crops. What can I do?  
The LORD said to Moses, “Go back down at once, because your people, whom you led out of Egypt, have sinned and rejected me. 
He lifts the poor from the dust : and raises the needy from their misery. : He makes them companions of princes : and puts them in places of honour. : The foundations of the earth belong to the LORD; : on them he has built the world. 
God sits on his sacred throne; : he rules over the nations. 
The LORD has stirred up their enemies to attack them. 
Don't let your own words lead you into sin, so that you have to tell God's priest that you didn't mean it. Why make God angry with you? Why let him destroy what you have worked for? 
They were especially sad because he had said that they would never see him again. And so they went with him to the ship.
They shall remove the greasy ashes from the altar and spread a purple cloth over it. 
Joyful songs will ring out from your gates, : and from all your houses people will shout, : ‘Praise the Lord! Praise the God of Israel!’ : “Jerusalem, God will bless your people, : and they will praise his holy name for ever.” : With these words Tobit ended his song of praise.
that I, the LORD, am saying: I am your enemy. I will draw my sword and kill all of you, good and evil alike. 
Make sure you leave Babylonia, : all you that carry the temple equipment! : Touch no forbidden thing; : keep yourselves holy and leave. 
I prayed, “Listen to them mocking us, O God! Let their ridicule fall on their own heads. Let them be robbed of everything they have, and let them be taken as prisoners to a foreign land. 
“Now then,” Joshua continued, “honour the LORD and serve him sincerely and faithfully. Get rid of the gods which your ancestors used to worship in Mesopotamia and in Egypt, and serve only the LORD. 
The people of Israel took all the valuables and livestock from these cities and kept them for themselves. But they put every person to death; no one was left alive. 
Then some teachers of the Law said to themselves, “This man is speaking blasphemy!” 
You have nothing to do with corrupt judges, : who make injustice legal, 
She named the boy Ichabod, explaining, “God's glory has left Israel” — referring to the capture of the Covenant Box and the death of her father-in-law and her husband. 
But they did not understand his answer. 
“When you are trying to capture a city, do not cut down its fruit trees, even though the siege lasts a long time. Eat the fruit, but do not destroy the trees; the trees are not your enemies. 
Your Majesty, all the people of Israel are looking to you to tell them who is to succeed you as king. 
Then God said, “Mortal man, go to the people of Israel and say to them whatever I tell you to say. 
Proclaim the following festivals at the appointed times. 
Now then, confess your sins to the LORD, the God of your ancestors, and do what pleases him. Separate yourselves from the foreigners living in our land and get rid of your foreign wives.” 
He said, “Lord, if you really are pleased with me, I ask you to go with us. These people are stubborn, but forgive our evil and our sin, and accept us as your own people.” 
And I myself will show him all that he must suffer for my sake.” 
Shelah was one of Judah's sons. His descendants included Er, who founded the town of Lecah; Laadah, founder of the town of Mareshah; the clan of linen weavers, who lived in the town of Beth Ashbea; 
Those who live in the towns on the mainland will be killed in the fighting. The enemy will dig trenches, build earthworks, and make a solid wall of shields against you. 
I hate the gold bull worshipped by the people of the city of Samaria. I am furious with them. How long will it be before they give up their idolatry? 
Two other men, both of them criminals, were also led out to be put to death with Jesus. 
He will destroy them like a blazing fire : when he appears. : The LORD will devour them in his anger, : and fire will consume them. 
After Saul's death David came back from his victory over the Amalekites and stayed in Ziklag for two days. 
God was angry that Balaam was going, and as Balaam was riding along on his donkey, accompanied by his two servants, the angel of the LORD stood in the road to bar his way. 
Jesus noticed how some of the guests were choosing the best places, so he told this parable to all of them
she must do everything that she vowed or promised unless her husband raises an objection when he hears about it. 
On the sixth day they are to bring in twice as much as usual and prepare it.” 
At the mountain the LORD appointed the men of the tribe of Levi to be in charge of the Covenant Box, to serve him as priests, and to pronounce blessings in his name. And these are still their duties. 
Jesus answered him, “If I want him to live until I come, what is that to you? Follow me!” 
God did not harm these leading men of Israel; they saw God, and then they ate and drank together. 
David prepared the way well for his son, a wise man, to rule after him. 
His wife was Ahab's daughter, and like the family of Ahab he followed the evil ways of the kings of Israel. He sinned against the LORD, 
And so the king and Haman went to eat with Esther 
You got ready to use your bow, : ready to shoot your arrows. : Your lightning split open the earth. 
Because I did, Moses promised me that my children and I would certainly receive as our possession the land which I walked over. 
The LORD killed seventy of the men of Beth Shemesh because they looked inside the Covenant Box. And the people mourned because the LORD had caused such a great slaughter among them. 
and they took the colt to Jesus. Then they threw their cloaks over the animal and helped Jesus get on. 
Caleb son of Jephunneh had three sons: Iru, Elah, and Naam. And Elah was the father of Kenaz. 
“Then they will answer him, ‘When, Lord, did we ever see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison, and would not help you?’  
That is why the Good News was preached also to the dead, to those who had been judged in their physical existence as everyone is judged; it was preached to them so that in their spiritual existence they may live as God lives. 
Wisdom, understanding, and sound counsel are appropriate to the aged and the respected. 
Death! Its sentence is welcome to someone living in poverty, with failing health, very old, burdened with worries, blind, and without hope. 
Its guardrooms, its entrance room, and its inner walls measured the same as those in the other gateways. There were windows all round, and in the entrance room also. The total length was 25 metres and the width 12.5 metres. 
Then Eliakim, Shebna, and Joah tore their clothes in grief and went and reported to the king what the Assyrian official had said.
Your lips cover me with kisses; : your love is better than wine. 
He keeps me from the grave : and blesses me with love and mercy. 
everyone has sinned and is far away from God's saving presence. 
The next morning Elkanah and his family got up early, and after worshipping the LORD, they went back home to Ramah. Elkanah had intercourse with his wife Hannah, and the LORD answered her prayer. 
King David was now living in his palace. One day he sent for the prophet Nathan and said to him, “Here I am living in a house built of cedar, but the LORD's Covenant Box is kept in a tent!” 
David came to Saul and entered his service. Saul liked him very much and chose him as the man to carry his weapons. 
Then the man took me through the north gate to the front of the Temple. As I looked, I saw that the Temple of the LORD was filled with the dazzling light of his presence. I threw myself face downwards on the ground, 
There he met a man named Aeneas, who was paralysed and had not been able to get out of bed for eight years. 
He tells what he has seen and heard, yet no one accepts his message. 
I, the LORD, tell you what I am going to do to those prophets whom I did not send but who speak in my name and say war and starvation will not strike this land — I will kill them in war and by starvation. 
Now, because we are under obligation to Your Majesty, we do not want to see this happen, and so we suggest 
Be faithful in the practice of your religion; when you worship the Lord, do it with all your heart. 
But after you have suffered for a little while, the God of all grace, who calls you to share his eternal glory in union with Christ, will himself perfect you and give you firmness, strength, and a sure foundation. 
he said, “Get out, everybody! The little girl is not dead — she is only sleeping!” Then they all laughed at him. 
The king and his officials liked this idea, and the king did what Memucan suggested. 
“And now I commend you to the care of God and to the message of his grace, which is able to build you up and give you the blessings God has for all his people. 
How can you say you have not defiled yourself, : that you have never worshipped Baal? : Look how you sinned in the valley; : see what you have done. : You are like a wild camel on heat, : running about loose, 
So I am ashamed of all I have said : and repent in dust and ashes. 
Lazy people are no better than dung; they are repulsive, and no one wants to get near them. 
While I was working among you, I was paid by other churches. I was robbing them, so to speak, in order to help you. 
but Shammah stood his ground in the field, defended it, and killed the Philistines. The LORD won a great victory that day. 
He told them to pray to the God of heaven for mercy and to ask him to explain the mystery to them so that they would not be killed along with the other advisers in Babylon. 
If entertainment is being provided, don't keep up a steady conversation; it's the wrong time to show off your wit. 
Round Ecbatana King Arphaxad built a wall thirty metres high and 22 metres thick of cut stones; each stone was 130 centimetres thick and 260 centimetres long. 
His wisdom caused the rivers to flow : and the clouds to give rain to the earth. 
The LORD said to Moses, “Go to the king and tell him that the LORD, the God of the Hebrews, says, ‘Let my people go, so that they may worship me. 
You made springs and fountains flow; : you dried up large rivers. 
“Do not eat anything that the LORD has declared unclean. 
When the angel had said this, all the people of Israel began to cry, 
The slave-drivers kept trying to force them to make the same number of bricks every day as they had made when they were given straw. 
while the wise ones took containers full of oil for their lamps.  
and the sash of fine linen and of blue, purple, and red wool, decorated with embroidery, as the LORD had commanded Moses. 
So he looked at them, expecting to get something from them. 
Mahli, Mushi, Merari, Levi. 
And any woman who prays or proclaims God's message in public worship with nothing on her head disgraces her husband; there is no difference between her and a woman whose head has been shaved. 
Joseph answered, “This is what it means: the three baskets are three days. 
That is what will happen to you, people of Bethel, because of the terrible evil that you have done. As soon as the battle begins, the king of Israel will die.”
Howl in grief, mortal man; : this sword is meant for my people : and for all the leaders of Israel. : They are going to be killed : with all the rest of my people. : Beat your breast in despair! 
Tell them how the LORD spoke to you from the fire, how you heard him speaking but did not see him in any form at all. 
There is nothing on earth to compare with him; : he is a creature that has no fear. 
While I watched, the bones were covered with sinews and muscles, and then with skin. But there was no breath in the bodies. 
that is, not your own conscience, but the other person's conscience. : “Well, then,” someone asks, “why should my freedom to act be limited by another person's conscience? 
The leaders also brought offerings to celebrate the dedication of the altar. When they were ready to present their gifts at the altar, 
All these things happened to them as examples for others, and they were written down as a warning for us. For we live at a time when the end is about to come. 
“Obey faithfully all the laws that I have given you: Love the LORD your God, do everything he commands, and be faithful to him. 
“Turn to me now and be saved, : people all over the world! : I am the only God there is. 
He agreed to pay them the regular wage, a silver coin a day, and sent them to work in his vineyard.  
Abraham lived in Philistia for a long time.
Then he turned to the woman and said to Simon, “Do you see this woman? I came into your home, and you gave me no water for my feet, but she has washed my feet with her tears and dried them with her hair.  
You gave them as many children as there are stars in the sky, : and let them conquer and live in the land : that you had promised their ancestors to give them. 
“But I will bless those : who put their trust in me. 
Hear my prayers and the prayers of your people when they face this place and pray. In your home in heaven hear us and forgive us. 
kind, and a friend of humanity. It is dependable and sure, and has no worries. It has power over everything, and sees everything. It penetrates every spirit that is intelligent and pure, no matter how delicate its substance may be. 
Wise people are careful to stay out of trouble, but stupid people are careless and act too quickly. 
At once Jehu's fellow-officers spread their cloaks at the top of the steps for Jehu to stand on, blew trumpets, and shouted, “Jehu is king!” 
His other daughter Abigail married Jether, a descendant of Ishmael, and they had a son named Amasa. 
The whole meal must be eaten in the house in which it was prepared; it must not be taken outside. And do not break any of the animal's bones. 
When they came to the threshing place at Atad east of the Jordan, they mourned loudly for a long time, and Joseph performed mourning ceremonies for seven days. 
The LORD lives! Praise my defender! : Proclaim the greatness of the God who saves me. 
The Sovereign LORD says, “I will use King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia to put an end to Egypt's wealth. 
“These are the commandments the LORD gave to all of you when you were gathered at the mountain. When he spoke with a mighty voice from the fire and from the thick clouds, he gave these commandments and no others. Then he wrote them on two stone tablets and gave them to me. 
Then in their trouble they called to the LORD, : and he saved them from their distress. 
(In saying this he indicated the kind of death he was going to suffer.) 
Huram also made ten basins, one for each cart. Each basin was 1.8 metres in diameter, and held about 800 litres. 
Anyone who eats anything on that day will no longer be considered one of God's people. 
My eyes are tired from watching for your saving help, : for the deliverance you promised. 
They should be tested first, and then, if they pass the test, they are to serve. 
These five kings had formed an alliance and joined forces in the Valley of Siddim, which is now the Dead Sea. 
In the case of a person who has been burnt, if the raw flesh becomes white or reddish-white, 
They have ears, but cannot hear; : they are not even able to breathe. 
After the LORD destroys those nations, make sure that you don't follow their religious practices, because that would be fatal. Don't try to find out how they worship their gods, so that you can worship in the same way. 
Nadab and Abihu died before their father did, and left no descendants, so their brothers Eleazar and Ithamar became priests. 
Some time later Jesus travelled through towns and villages, preaching the Good News about the Kingdom of God. The twelve disciples went with him, 
Everyone, great and small, tries to make money dishonestly; even prophets and priests cheat the people. 
“Make a table out of acacia wood, 88 centimetres long, 44 centimetres wide, and 66 centimetres high. 
Since I took seriously the commands of the Most High God, 
The following are the regulations for grain offerings. An Aaronite priest shall present the grain offering to the LORD in front of the altar. 
He continued to prosper and became a very rich man. 
But other people are like the seeds sown in good soil. They hear the message, accept it, and bear fruit: some thirty, some sixty, and some 100.” 
My people are doomed because they do not acknowledge me. You priests have refused to acknowledge me and have rejected my teaching, and so I reject you and will not acknowledge your sons as my priests. 
“And you still don't understand?” he asked them. 
They even placed their disgusting idols in the Temple built for my worship, and they have defiled it. 
When Joseph and Mary had finished doing all that was required by the law of the Lord, they returned to their home town of Nazareth in Galilee. 
“Now then, Oholibah, this is what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying to you. You are tired of those lovers, but I will make them angry with you and bring them to surround you. 
A person's body amounts to nothing, but a good reputation will last for ever. 
Jesus answered with a question, “What law did Moses give you?” 
When anyone presents a fellowship offering to the LORD, whether in fulfilment of a vow or as a freewill offering, the animal must be without any defect if it is to be accepted. 
not only with our fathers, but with all of us who are living today. 
Collect this money from the people of Israel and spend it for the upkeep of the Tent of my presence. This tax will be the payment for their lives, and I will remember to protect them.” 
Hot tempers cause arguments, but patience brings peace. 
When the day came for the heavenly beings to appear before the LORD, Satan was there among them. 
If you go to her house, you are on the way to the world of the dead. It is a short cut to death.
One arm will show the king the way to the Ammonite city of Rabbah, and the other the way to Judah, to the fortified city, Jerusalem. 
On that day even healthy young men and women will collapse from thirst. 
The disciples left, went to the city, and found everything just as Jesus had told them; and they prepared the Passover meal. 
There has been work and toil; often I have gone without sleep; I have been hungry and thirsty; I have often been without enough food, shelter, or clothing. 
They took the stone away. Jesus looked up and said, “I thank you, Father, that you listen to me.  
the curtains for the court which is round the Tent and the altar, and the curtain for the entrance of the court. They were responsible for all the service connected with these items. 
“No one knows, however, when that day or hour will come — neither the angels in heaven, nor the Son; only the Father knows.  
They made four posts of acacia wood to hold the curtain, covered them with gold, and fitted them with gold hooks. Then they made four silver bases to hold the posts. 
People do all their work just to get something to eat, but they never have enough. 
Everyone, young and old, ran together to the gate. No one could believe that Judith had come back. They opened the gate for her and her slave and welcomed them. Then, when they had lit a fire to give some light and had gathered round the two women, 
He satisfies those who are thirsty : and fills the hungry with good things. 
Terah died there at the age of 205.
Daniel made up his mind not to let himself become ritually unclean by eating the food and drinking the wine of the royal court, so he asked Ashpenaz to help him, 
Moses presented their case to the LORD, 
I did this because they had rejected my commands, broken my laws, profaned the Sabbath, and worshipped the same idols their ancestors had served. 
Rise up now, LORD God, and with the Covenant Box, the symbol of your power, enter the Temple and stay here for ever. Bless your priests in all they do, and may all your people be happy because of your goodness to them. 
The brothers tore their clothes in sorrow, loaded their donkeys, and returned to the city. 
The king gave orders to his men, so they took Abram and put him out of the country, together with his wife and everything he owned.
When all the leaders had gathered, the priests lifted the Covenant Box 
King Hiram sent some experienced seamen from his fleet to serve with Solomon's men. 
See what God did with this sadness of yours: how earnest it has made you, how eager to prove your innocence! Such indignation, such alarm, such feelings, such devotion, such readiness to punish wrongdoing! You have shown yourselves to be without fault in the whole matter. 
After all, I was kidnapped from the land of the Hebrews, and even here in Egypt I didn't do anything to deserve being put in prison.” 
Because there is the one loaf of bread, all of us, though many, are one body, for we all share the same loaf. 
The next day the Jewish leaders, the elders, and the teachers of the Law gathered in Jerusalem. 
That happens because they ill-treated widows : and showed no kindness to childless women. 
listen to your people's prayers. If there in that land they repent and pray to you, confessing how sinful and wicked they have been, hear their prayers, O LORD. 
Then he set fire to the torches and turned the foxes loose in the Philistine cornfields. In this way he burnt up not only the corn that had been harvested but also the corn that was still in the fields, and the olive orchards as well. 
Jotham died and was buried in the royal tombs in David's City, and his son Ahaz succeeded him as king.
He placed the lights in the sky to shine on the earth, 
I will see him with my own eyes, : and he will not be a stranger. : My courage failed because you said, 
So now my friend says, “You people who live in Jerusalem and Judah, judge between my vineyard and me. 
‘Men of Israel, listen! Today you are going into battle. Do not be afraid of your enemies, or lose courage, or panic. 
It is foolish to ignore what your father taught you; it is wise to accept his correction. 
“The day is near when I, the LORD, : will judge all nations. : Edom, what you have done : will be done to you. : You will get back what you have given. 
Evil people will have to bow down to the righteous and humbly beg their favour. 
the fifth onyx, the sixth carnelian, the seventh yellow quartz, the eighth beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth chalcedony, the eleventh turquoise, the twelfth amethyst. 
He drove out the inhabitants as his people advanced; : he divided their land among the tribes of Israel : and gave their homes to his people. 
As Peter was about to go in, Cornelius met him, fell at his feet, and bowed down before him. 
There are different abilities to perform service, but the same God gives ability to all for their particular service. 
We may say that because of the far brighter glory now the glory that was so bright in the past is gone. 
I will punish your children and rub your faces in the dung of the animals you sacrifice — and you will be taken out to the dunghill. 
“The LORD says, ‘When Babylonia's seventy years are over, I will show my concern for you and keep my promise to bring you back home. 
How can we praise Zerubbabel? He was like a signet ring on the Lord's right-hand, 
and there I saw coming from the east the dazzling light of the presence of the God of Israel. God's voice sounded like the roar of the sea, and the earth shone with the dazzling light. 
Everything else that Solomon did, his career and his wisdom, are all recorded in The History of Solomon. 
The LORD says, : “It was my will that he should suffer; : his death was a sacrifice to bring forgiveness. : And so he will see his descendants; : he will live a long life, : and through him my purpose will succeed. 
When you have harvested your fields, celebrate this festival for seven days, beginning on the fifteenth day of the seventh month. The first day shall be a special day of rest. 
The Sovereign LORD says, “When I make you clean from all your sins, I will let you live in your cities again and let you rebuild the ruins. 
You mountains, why did you skip like goats? : You hills, why did you jump about like lambs? 
Joshua answered, “If there are so many of you and the hill country of Ephraim is too small for you, then go into the forests and clear ground for yourselves in the land of the Perizzites and the Rephaim.” 
Each of you men should know how to live with his wife in a holy and honourable way, 
When Josiah was king, the LORD said to me, “Have you seen what Israel, that unfaithful woman, has done? She has turned away from me, and on every high hill and under every green tree she has acted like a prostitute. 
When they enter the gateway to the inner courtyard of the Temple, they are to put on linen clothing. They must not wear anything made of wool when they are on duty in the inner courtyard or in the Temple. 
but they could not find any, even though many people came forward and told lies about him. Finally two men stepped up 
Do not criticize one another, my brothers and sisters. If you criticize fellow-Christians or judge them, you criticize the Law and judge it. If you judge the Law, then you are no longer one who obeys the Law, but one who judges it. 
not to everyone, but only to the witnesses that God had already chosen, that is, to us who ate and drank with him after he rose from death. 
“My fellow-Jews, listen to me as I make my defence before you!” 
I will certainly pick them up and throw them far away from me, both them and the city that I gave to them and their ancestors. 
Time after time you insult me : and show no shame for the way you abuse me. 
He took Peter, James, and John with him. Distress and anguish came over him, 
Peter, full of the Holy Spirit, answered them, “Leaders of the people and elders
and the magicians said to the king, “God has done this!” But the king was stubborn and, just as the LORD had said, the king would not listen to Moses and Aaron. 
But if I am delayed, this letter will let you know how we should conduct ourselves in God's household, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and support of the truth. 
“This is what the parable means: the seed is the word of God.  
Take twelve kilogrammes of flour and bake twelve loaves of bread. 
After the LORD had separated Israel from Judah, the Israelites made Jeroboam son of Nebat their king. Jeroboam made them abandon the LORD and led them into terrible sins. 
And what I am now going to tell you is true.” : The angel said, “Three more kings will rule over Persia, followed by a fourth, who will be richer than all the others. At the height of his power and wealth he will challenge the kingdom of Greece. 
There she saw the new king at the temple entrance, standing by the column reserved for kings and surrounded by the army officers and the trumpeters. All the people were shouting joyfully and blowing trumpets, and the temple musicians with their instruments were leading the celebration. She tore her clothes in distress and shouted, “Treason! Treason!” 
He also said, “Wherever you are welcomed, stay in the same house until you leave that place.  
There will be no way for you to escape. 
“When the time drew near for God to keep the promise he had made to Abraham, the number of our people in Egypt had grown much larger. 
At that time our deeds are open for all to see; all our happiness can be erased in that one moment of misery. 
They travelled across a desert where no one lived and camped in places where no human being had ever been. 
The LORD will help them when they are sick : and will restore them to health. 
Whoever does not love the Lord — a curse on him! :   Marana tha — Our Lord, come! 
But the people were unfaithful to the God of their ancestors and deserted him to worship the gods of the nations whom God had driven out of the land. 
You would not listen or pay attention, even though the LORD has continued to send you his servants the prophets. 
The LORD says, : “Who will pity you, people of Jerusalem, : and who will grieve over you? : Who will stop long enough : to ask how you are? 
Every test that you have experienced is the kind that normally comes to people. But God keeps his promise, and he will not allow you to be tested beyond your power to remain firm; at the time you are put to the test, he will give you the strength to endure it, and so provide you with a way out. 
Wherever you are welcomed, stay in the same house until you leave that town;  
It was the will of the LORD that his servant : should grow like a plant taking root in dry ground. : He had no dignity or beauty : to make us take notice of him. : There was nothing attractive about him, : nothing that would draw us to him. 
Evildoers go wrong all their lives; : they tell lies from the day they are born. 
Then they sat there on the ground with him for seven days and nights without saying a word, because they saw how much he was suffering.
His officials went to him and said, “We have heard that the Israelite kings are merciful. Give us permission to go to the king of Israel with sackcloth round our waists and ropes round our necks, and maybe he will spare your life.” 
If you have been foolish enough to be arrogant and plan evil, stop and think! 
The Lord made Caleb strong, and when he was an old man, he was still strong enough to go up into the hill country and capture it for himself and his descendants. 
Then Annas sent him, still bound, to Caiaphas the High Priest. 
The man answered, “ ‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind’; and ‘Love your neighbour as you love yourself.’ ” 
Useless, useless, said the Philosopher. It is all useless. 
All who heard him were amazed at his intelligent answers. 
The tribe of Gad lived to the north of Reuben in the land of Bashan as far east as Salecah. 
Israel, I will make you my wife; : I will be true and faithful; : I will show you constant love and mercy : and make you mine for ever. 
At first his kingdom included Babylon, Erech, and Accad, all three of them in Babylonia. 
Aaron's sons Nadab and Abihu, each took his fire pan, put live coals in it, added incense, and presented it to the LORD. But this fire was not holy, because the LORD had not commanded them to present it. 
One of them said, “Nine months from now I will come back, and your wife Sarah will have a son.” : Sarah was behind him, at the door of the tent, listening. 
My child, be humble in everything you do, and people will appreciate it more than gifts.  
Now, I am not at all concerned about being judged by you or by any human standard; I don't even pass judgement on myself. 
Better to be poor and honest than rich and dishonest. 
to send to all the prisoners in Babylon this message about Shemaiah: “I, the LORD, will punish Shemaiah and all his descendants. I did not send him, but he spoke to you as if he were a prophet, and he made you believe lies. He will have no descendants among you. He will not live to see the good things that I am going to do for my people, because he told them to rebel against me. I, the LORD, have spoken.”
The angel ordered the stump to be left in the ground. This means that you will become king again when you acknowledge that God rules all the world. 
Joanna, whose husband Chuza was an officer in Herod's court; and Susanna, and many other women who used their own resources to help Jesus and his disciples. 
I will get rid of anyone : who whispers evil things about someone else; : I will not tolerate anyone : who is proud and arrogant. 
When you go into the bedroom, take the fish's heart and liver with you and place them on the burning incense, 
On the day you fight your enemies, : your people will volunteer. : Like the dew of early morning : your young men will come to you on the sacred hills. 
As for you, my son, be strong through the grace that is ours in union with Christ Jesus. 
But from the moment an open sore appears, he is unclean. 
and you belong to Christ, and Christ belongs to God.
The LORD spoke to me. 
Pay attention, you older people; : everyone in Judah, listen. : Has anything like this ever happened : in your time or the time of your ancestors? 
Their leaders were Zerubbabel, Joshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum, and Baanah. : This is the list of the clans of Israel, with the number of those from each clan who returned from exile
But no animals may be eaten unless they have divided hoofs and also chew the cud. You may not eat camels, rabbits, or rock-badgers. They must be considered unclean; they chew the cud but do not have divided hoofs. 
he reached for a cup and poured out sweet-smelling wine at the foot of the altar as an offering to the Most High, the universal King. 
The greatest one among you must be your servant.  
All round the outer edge of the rim of the tank were two rows of bronze gourds, which had been cast all in one piece with the rest of the tank. 
When the hired man, who is not a shepherd and does not own the sheep, sees a wolf coming, he leaves the sheep and runs away; so the wolf snatches the sheep and scatters them.  
Do two people start travelling together without arranging to meet? 
Nehemiah son of Azbuk, ruler of half the Bethzur District, built the next section, as far as David's tomb, the pool, and the barracks. 
“Do not store up riches for yourselves here on earth, where moths and rust destroy, and robbers break in and steal.  
This is the day of the Sovereign LORD Almighty: : today he will take revenge; : today he will punish his enemies. : His sword will eat them until it is full, : and drink their blood until it is satisfied. : Today the Almighty sacrifices his victims : in the north, by the Euphrates. 
So Bagoas left Holofernes and went to Judith. “Lovely lady,” he said, “the general invites you to his tent for some drinks. Come and enjoy yourself like the Assyrian women who serve in Nebuchadnezzar's palace. This is a great honour.” 
Jericho — 345 
I have greater wisdom than those who are old, : because I obey your commands. 
where it will turn towards the valley at the border of Egypt and end at the Mediterranean. 
Just as we wear the likeness of the man made of earth, so we will wear the likeness of the Man from heaven. 
I swear that I will do this to you wicked people who have gathered together against me. Here in the wilderness every one of you will die. I, the LORD, have spoken.’ ” 
“Those who love their father or mother more than me are not fit to be my disciples; those who love their son or daughter more than me are not fit to be my disciples.  
Doomed is the lying, murderous city, : full of wealth to be looted and plundered! 
He says, : “Do not follow the ways of other nations; : do not be disturbed by unusual sights in the sky, : even though other nations are terrified. 
but Shishak will conquer them, and they will learn the difference between serving me and serving earthly rulers.” 
However, if you suffer because you are a Christian, don't be ashamed of it, but thank God that you bear Christ's name. 
The Philistine kings met together to celebrate and offer a great sacrifice to their god Dagon. They sang, “Our god has given us victory over our enemy Samson!” 
The apostles and the elders met together to consider this question. 
Messengers went out at the command of the king and his officials through all Judah and Israel with the following invitation: : “People of Israel, you have survived the Assyrian conquest of the land. Now return to the LORD, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and he will return to you. 
Proud fools talk too much; the words of the wise protect them. 
Then the five men who had gone to explore the country round Laish said to their companions, “Did you know that here in one of these houses there is a wooden idol covered with silver? There are also other idols and an ephod. What do you think we should do?” 
As long as Samuel lived, he never again saw the king; but he grieved over him. The LORD was sorry that he had made Saul king of Israel.
Before they reached Tobit, Raphael said to Tobias, “Your father will be able to see again. 
Some of his disciples asked among themselves, “What does this mean? He tells us that in a little while we will not see him, and then a little while later we will see him; and he also says, ‘It is because I am going to the Father.’ 
I have many enemies and oppressors, : but I do not fail to obey your laws. 
But Moses said to God, “I am nobody. How can I go to the king and bring the Israelites out of Egypt?” 
Run your best in the race of faith, and win eternal life for yourself; for it was to this life that God called you when you firmly professed your faith before many witnesses. 
The prophets wrote, ‘Everyone will be taught by God.’ Anyone who hears the Father and learns from him comes to me.  
King Ahab told his wife Jezebel everything that Elijah had done and how he had put all the prophets of Baal to death. 
“The LORD your God will bring you into the land which you are going to occupy, and he will drive many nations out of it. As you advance, he will drive out seven nations larger and more powerful than you: the Hittites, the Girgashites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. 
Choose my instruction instead of silver; : choose knowledge rather than the finest gold. 
Many of those who have already died will live again: some will enjoy eternal life, and some will suffer eternal disgrace. 
Laban said to Jacob, “This pile of rocks will be a reminder for both of us.” That is why that place was named Galeed. 
and who do not slander others. : They do no wrong to their friends : nor spread rumours about their neighbours. 
Here is a terrible thing that I have seen in this world: people save up their money for a time when they may need it,  
The LORD Almighty says, ‘I am bringing war, starvation, and disease on them, and I will make them like figs that are too rotten to be eaten. 
In the same way, after the supper he took the cup and said, “This cup is God's new covenant, sealed with my blood. Whenever you drink it, do so in memory of me.” 
He took everything he owned and left in a hurry. He crossed the River Euphrates and started for the hill country of Gilead. 
His brother Shomer had three sons: Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram. 
Then Jacob went to Egypt, where he and his sons died. 
Perhaps God will change his mind; perhaps he will stop being angry, and we will not die!” 
She did this for many days, until Paul became so upset that he turned round and said to the spirit, “In the name of Jesus Christ I order you to come out of her!” The spirit went out of her that very moment. 
and Peter remembered what Jesus had told him: “Before the cock crows, you will say three times that you do not know me.” He went out and wept bitterly.
The Assyrian emperor has sent his chief official to insult the living God. May the LORD your God hear these insults and punish those who spoke them. So pray to God for those of our people who survive.” 
I saw that she was completely immoral, that the second sister was as bad as the first. 
What a rich harvest your goodness provides! : Wherever you go there is plenty. 
Adah gave birth to Jabal, who was the ancestor of those who raise livestock and live in tents. 
So Jesus called them all together to him and said, “You know that those who are considered rulers of the heathen have power over them, and the leaders have complete authority.  
The LORD says, “Tell the descendants of Jacob, tell the people of Judah
“Why are you crying, sir?” Hazael asked. : “Because I know the horrible things you will do against the people of Israel,” Elisha answered. “You will set their fortresses on fire, slaughter their finest young men, batter their children to death, and rip open their pregnant women.” 
The following day he arrived in Caesarea, where Cornelius was waiting for him, together with relatives and close friends that he had invited. 
Simon has just explained how God first showed his care for the Gentiles by taking from among them a people to belong to him. 
So Joseph made it a law for the land of Egypt that a fifth of the harvest should belong to the king. This law still remains in force today. Only the lands of the priests did not become the king's property. 
Protect me from the traps they have set for me, : from the snares of those evildoers. 
But if it was known that the bull had been in the habit of attacking and its owner did not keep it penned up, he must make good the loss by giving the other man a live bull, but he may keep the dead animal.
But Peter answered, “Man, I don't know what you are talking about!” : At once, while he was still speaking, a cock crowed. 
“Now, to what can I compare the people of this day? They are like children sitting in the market place. One group shouts to the other,  
“Come on and have some more,” he says, but he doesn't mean it. What he thinks is what he really is. 
His family, his brothers, and the rest of his father's family all went with him. Only their small children and their sheep, goats, and cattle stayed in the region of Goshen. 
The people of Israel will have nothing more to do with idols; : I will answer their prayers and take care of them; : Like an evergreen tree I will shelter them; : I am the source of all their blessings.” 
you know what God wants you to do, and you have learnt from the Law to choose what is right; 
Teach these things and use your full authority as you encourage and rebuke your hearers. Let none of them look down on you.
They made twenty frames for the north side of the Tent 
but the pagan places of worship were not destroyed. The people still did not turn wholeheartedly to the worship of the God of their ancestors. 
you send abundant rain on the ploughed fields : and soak them with water; : you soften the soil with showers : and cause the young plants to grow. 
Then the Son of Man will appear, coming in a cloud with great power and glory.  
one for each end of the lid. He made them so that they formed one piece with the lid. 
Jeriah, Amariah, Jehaziel, and Jekameam, sons of Hebron, in order of age; 
If you answer a silly question, you are just as silly as the person who asked it. 
Or perhaps you don't know that the man who joins his body to a prostitute becomes physically one with her? The scripture says quite plainly, “The two will become one body.” 
Blow the trumpet throughout the land! : Shout loud and clear! : Tell the people of Judah and Jerusalem : to run to the fortified cities. 
Yes, you are the ones who have seen all these great things that the LORD has done. 
So Pilate asked him, “Are you a king, then?” : Jesus answered, “You say that I am a king. I was born and came into the world for this one purpose, to speak about the truth. Whoever belongs to the truth listens to me.” 
Is your constant love spoken of in the grave : or your faithfulness in the place of destruction? 
They say, “God will not know; : the Most High will not find out.” 
After forty days Noah opened a window 
Here on Mount Zion the LORD Almighty will prepare a banquet for all the nations of the world — a banquet of the richest food and the finest wine. 
That same day the LORD said to Moses, 
Think how far you have fallen! Turn from your sins and do what you did at first. If you don't turn from your sins, I will come to you and take your lampstand from its place.  
They press olives for oil, and grapes for wine, : but they themselves are thirsty. 
Justice and right will make you strong. : You will be safe from oppression and terror. 
Baasha died and was buried in Tirzah, and his son Elah succeeded him as king. 
Invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will tell you what to do. You will anoint as king the man I tell you to.” 
He also built places of worship where all his foreign wives could burn incense and offer sacrifices to their own gods. 
Near the Sheep Gate in Jerusalem there is a pool with five porches; in Hebrew it is called Bethzatha.  
Build an altar there made of stones that have had no iron tools used on them, 
The terrible day of their anger is here, and who can stand against it?”
“We want Your Majesty to know that the Jews who came here from your other territories have settled in Jerusalem and are rebuilding that evil and rebellious city. They have begun to rebuild the walls and will soon finish them. 
Can a Nubian change the colour of his skin, or a leopard remove its spots? If they could, then you that do nothing but evil could learn to do what is right. 
Then the priest shall order one of the birds to be killed over a clay bowl containing fresh spring water. 
You know the commandments: ‘Do not commit murder; do not commit adultery; do not steal; do not accuse anyone falsely; do not cheat; respect your father and your mother.’ ” 
I had another vision from the Sovereign LORD. In it I saw him preparing to punish his people with fire. The fire burnt up the great ocean under the earth, and started to burn up the land. 
But Jesus gave them strict orders not to tell anyone, and he said, “Give her something to eat.”
After all, the man who makes the pots has the right to use the clay as he wishes, and to make two pots from the same lump of clay, one for special occasions and the other for ordinary use. 
“And now, sir,” Judah continued, “if I go back to my father without the boy, as soon as he sees that the boy is not with me, he will die. His life is wrapped up with the life of the boy, and he is so old that the sorrow we would cause him would kill him. 
“You and Eleazar, together with the other leaders of the community, are to count everything that has been captured, including the prisoners and the animals. 
Everyone will take advantage of everyone else. Young people will not respect their elders, and worthless people will not respect their superiors. 
“But you, Holofernes, are ordered to go ahead of me and occupy all their territories in advance. If they surrender to you, hold them for me until I come to punish them. 
In the fifth year of Rehoboam's reign King Shishak of Egypt attacked Jerusalem. 
‘We are rich,’ they say. ‘We've made a fortune. And no one can accuse us of getting rich dishonestly.’ 
“This was the dream. Now I will tell Your Majesty what it means. 
God is powerful; all must stand in awe of him; : he keeps his heavenly kingdom in peace. 
You might as well curse your friends as wake them up early in the morning with a loud greeting. 
While Jesus was having a meal in Matthew's house, many tax collectors and other outcasts came and joined Jesus and his disciples at the table. 
Those he most often turned to for advice were Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena, and Memucan — seven officials of Persia and Media who held the highest offices in the kingdom. 
They looked straight at him, and Peter said, “Look at us!” 
I remember the sincere faith you have, the kind of faith that your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice also had. I am sure that you have it also. 
You are like a woman who commits adultery with strangers instead of loving her husband. 
The next day, when Moses went into the Tent, he saw that Aaron's stick, representing the tribe of Levi, had sprouted. It had budded, blossomed, and produced ripe almonds! 
May those who jeer at me : be dismayed by their defeat. 
So call your fellow-Israelites “God's People” and “Loved-by-the-Lord”. 
He helped me out of danger; : he saved me because he was pleased with me. 
the blast of a trumpet, and the sound of a voice. When the people heard the voice, they begged not to hear another word, 
It is possible to be marvellously clever and still be dishonest, or to get what you want by being absurdly polite. 
Endure what you suffer as being a father's punishment; your suffering shows that God is treating you as his children. Was there ever a child who was not punished by his father? 
He made the bronze basin and its bronze base out of the mirrors belonging to the women who served at the entrance of the Tent of the LORD's presence. 
Jacob's sons did as they were told. Joseph gave them wagons, as the king had ordered, and food for the journey. 
Anyone who lies down or eats in the house must wash his clothes. 
You will become pregnant and give birth to a son, and you will name him Jesus. 
But don't come to the Temple without an offering; 
There is another difference: there were many of those other priests, because they died and could not continue their work. 
Sailors tell about the dangers of the sea, : and we listen to their tales in amazement. 
The tribes of Reuben and Gad and the eastern half of Manasseh have received their property, divided according to their families, 
Love and faithfulness will meet; : righteousness and peace will embrace. 
All of them depend on you : to give them food when they need it. 
Then Eli would bless Elkanah and his wife, and say to Elkanah, “May the LORD give you other children by this woman to take the place of the one you dedicated to him.” : After that they would go back home. 
He drank water from the brook, and ravens brought him bread and meat every morning and every evening. 
he cannot take it with him when he dies; : his wealth will not go with him to the grave. 
In this way you also will present the special contribution that belongs to the LORD from all the tithes which you receive from the Israelites. You are to give this special contribution for the LORD to Aaron the priest. 
In days to come : the mountain where the Temple stands : will be the highest one of all, : towering above all the hills. : Many nations will come streaming to it, 
They will give life and health to anyone who understands them. 
Moses quickly bowed down to the ground and worshipped. 
So the LORD will abandon his people to their enemies until the woman who is to give birth has her son. Then those Israelites who are in exile will be reunited with their own people. 
Then the LORD God planted a garden in Eden, in the East, and there he put the man he had formed. 
Balak said, “Come with me, and I will take you to another place. Perhaps God will be willing to let you curse them for me from there.” 
He will take away Egypt's hidden treasures of gold and silver and its other prized possessions. He will conquer Libya and Ethiopia. 
Those who fear the Lord will live, because they have put their trust in the one who can save them. 
There you can enjoy yourself as you wish, but don't commit the sin of bragging. 
“Then he said to those who were standing there, ‘Take the gold coin away from him and give it to the servant who has ten coins.’  
If anyone sins unintentionally by failing to hand over the payments that are sacred to the LORD, he shall bring as his repayment offering to the LORD a male sheep or goat without any defects. Its value is to be determined according to the official standard. 
The officials called together the town elders, and all the women and the young men also ran to the assembly. Achior was brought before the people, and Uzziah began questioning him. 
There are these two things, then, that cannot change and about which God cannot lie. So we who have found safety with him are greatly encouraged to hold firmly to the hope placed before us. 
but he takes pleasure in those who honour him, : in those who trust in his constant love. 
In time, no one will remember anything we ever did, and even our names will be forgotten. Our lives will pass away like traces of clouds and vanish like mist in the heat of the sun. 
A few days later there was a meeting of the believers, about 120 in all, and Peter stood up to speak. 
Do this because you belong to the LORD your God. From all the peoples on earth he chose you to be his own special people. 
We have this hope as an anchor for our lives. It is safe and sure, and goes through the curtain of the heavenly temple into the inner sanctuary. 
I will be to the people of Israel : like rain in a dry land. : They will blossom like flowers; : they will be firmly rooted : like the trees of Lebanon. 
As soon as he had finished speaking, the ground under Dathan and Abiram split open 
Peninnah, her rival, would torment and humiliate her, because the LORD had kept her childless. 
so the Jewish authorities told the man who had been healed, “This is a Sabbath, and it is against our Law for you to carry your mat.” 
They were greatly impressed by her beauty and wondered what kind of people the Israelites were. “Who can feel contempt for people whose women are so beautiful?” they asked one another. “We had better kill all the men, or else these Jews will be able to charm the whole world.” 
If you people of Reuben and Gad refuse to follow him now, he will once again abandon all these people in the wilderness, and you will be responsible for their destruction.” 
Samuel said, “Which does the LORD prefer: obedience or offerings and sacrifices? It is better to obey him than to sacrifice the best sheep to him. 
Then they turned round and came back to Kadesh (then known as Enmishpat). They conquered all the land of the Amalekites and defeated the Amorites who lived in Hazazon Tamar. 
“Do not judge others, and God will not judge you; do not condemn others, and God will not condemn you; forgive others, and God will forgive you.  
He covered himself with darkness; : thick clouds, full of water, surrounded him. 
The time will come when some men from your own group will tell lies to lead the believers away after them. 
In the tenth month of the ninth year that Zedekiah was king of Judah, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia came with his whole army and attacked Jerusalem. 
Don't be jealous of the wife you love. You will only be teaching her how to do you harm. 
In the fourth year of Hezekiah's reign — which was the seventh year of King Hoshea's reign over Israel — Emperor Shalmaneser of Assyria invaded Israel and besieged Samaria. 
After this, Jesus and his mother, brothers, and disciples went to Capernaum and stayed there a few days. 
So the young prophet went to Ramoth, 
But God has indeed heard me; : he has listened to my prayer. 
but you are to buy back every firstborn donkey by offering a lamb in its place. If you do not buy it back, break its neck. Buy back every firstborn son. : “No one is to appear before me without an offering. 
Also offer one male goat as a sin offering, and in this way perform the ritual of purification for the people. 
They baked unleavened bread from the dough that they had brought out of Egypt, for they had been driven out of Egypt so suddenly that they did not have time to get their food ready or to prepare leavened dough. 
and died at the age of 930. 
What good people want always results in good; when the wicked get what they want, everyone is angry. 
There on the mountain the LORD spoke to you face-to-face from the fire. 
But if everyone is proclaiming God's message when some unbelievers or ordinary people come in, they will be convinced of their sin by what they hear. They will be judged by all they hear, 
But Peter answered him, “May you and your money go to hell, for thinking that you can buy God's gift with money! 
This difference, then, also makes Jesus the guarantee of a better covenant. 
They would not be like their ancestors, : a rebellious and disobedient people, : whose trust in God was never firm : and who did not remain faithful to him. 
The woman was dressed in purple and scarlet, and covered with gold ornaments, precious stones, and pearls. In her hand she held a gold cup full of obscene and filthy things, the result of her immorality. 
The LORD said to Moses, “All of Israel's firstborn sons belong to me. So register by name every firstborn male Israelite, one month old or older. 
When Jesus heard this, he was surprised and said to the people following him, “I tell you, I have never found anyone in Israel with faith like this.  
because wealth is not permanent. Not even nations last for ever. 
All day long my enemies insult me; : those who mock me use my name in cursing. 
Such people teach that it is wrong to marry and to eat certain foods. But God created those foods to be eaten, after a prayer of thanks, by those who are believers and have come to know the truth. 
He said, “Ask the priests for a ruling on this question
In him I trust, and I will not be afraid. : What can a mere human being do to me? 
All who were able to contribute silver or bronze brought their offering for the LORD, and all who had acacia wood which could be used for any of the work brought it. 
He brought them out of their gloom and darkness : and broke their chains in pieces. 
The idol will be carried off to Assyria as tribute to the great emperor. The people of Israel will be disgraced and put to shame because of the advice they followed. 
The needy will not always be neglected; : the hope of the poor will not be crushed for ever. 
on top of the breasts of the animals and carried it all to the altar. He burnt the fat on the altar 
How else could you have anything to eat or enjoy yourself at all? 
“But suppose anyone accidentally kills someone he does not hate, whether by pushing him down or by throwing something at him. 
But when Joseph heard that Archelaus had succeeded his father Herod as king of Judea, he was afraid to go there. He was given more instructions in a dream, so he went to the province of Galilee 
Jesus answered, “I am telling you the truth: you are looking for me because you ate the bread and had all you wanted, not because you understood my miracles.  
The merchants of the earth also cry and mourn for her, because no one buys their goods any longer; 
In the time of King Hezekiah of Judah, the men named above went to Gerar and destroyed the tents and huts of the people who lived there. They drove the people out and settled there permanently because there was plenty of pasture for their sheep. 
When Nazirites complete their vows, they shall perform this ritual. They shall go to the entrance of the Tent 
Then Jacob made a vow to the LORD: “If you will be with me and protect me on the journey I am making and give me food and clothing, 
Whenever I cover the sky with clouds and the rainbow appears, 
After they had made this agreement at Beersheba, Abimelech and Phicol went back to Philistia. 
Come to me, all you that need instruction, and learn in my school. 
Shemaiah the prophet went to King Rehoboam and the Judean leaders who had gathered in Jerusalem to escape Shishak. He said to them, “This is the LORD's message to you: ‘You have abandoned me, so now I have abandoned you to Shishak.’ ” 
Jesus looked straight at them and answered, “This is impossible for human beings, but for God everything is possible.” 
He revealed his plans to Moses : and let the people of Israel see his mighty deeds. 
He dug the soil and cleared it of stones; : he planted the finest vines. : He built a tower to guard them, : dug a pit for treading the grapes. : He waited for the grapes to ripen, : but every grape was sour. 
Just as I have spared your life today, may the LORD do the same to me and free me from all troubles!” 
The dazzling light of the LORD's presence rose up from the creatures and moved to the entrance of the Temple. Then the cloud filled the Temple, and the courtyard was blazing with the light. 
They left Pi Hahiroth and passed through the Red Sea into the desert of Shur; after a three days' march they camped at Marah. 
“When thieves come at night, : they take only what they want. : When people gather grapes, : they always leave a few. : But your enemies have wiped you out completely. 
and he will bring peace. : When the Assyrians invade our country and break through our defences, we will send our strongest leaders to fight them. 
So they left the Syrian camp, went back to Samaria and called out to the guards at the gates: “We went to the Syrian camp and didn't see or hear anybody; the horses and donkeys have not been untied, and the tents are just as the Syrians left them.” 
The LORD Almighty said to Haggai, “These people say that this is not the right time to rebuild the Temple.” 
The LORD spoke to me. 
As Obadiah was on his way, he suddenly met Elijah. He recognized him, bowed low before him, and asked, “Is it really you, sir?” 
We took the livestock and plundered the towns. 
Offer the proper grain offering of flour mixed with olive oil: three kilogrammes with each bull, two kilogrammes with the ram, 
nothing is to be done to the woman, because she has not committed a sin worthy of death. This case is the same as when one man attacks another man and murders him. 
My enemies are healthy and strong; : there are many who hate me for no reason. 
On the west side there were curtains 22 metres long, with ten posts and ten bases and with hooks and rods made of silver. 
The boys grew up, and Esau became a skilled hunter, a man who loved the outdoor life, but Jacob was a quiet man who stayed at home. 
Jesus was still speaking when Judas, one of the twelve disciples, arrived. With him was a large crowd armed with swords and clubs and sent by the chief priests and the elders. 
Then Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve disciples, went off to the chief priests in order to betray Jesus to them. 
Solomon answered, “You always showed great love for my father David, your servant, and he was good, loyal, and honest in his relations with you. And you have continued to show him your great and constant love by giving him a son who today rules in his place. 
Israel's greatness will fly away like a bird, and there will be no more children born to them, no more women pregnant, no more children conceived. 
the people called the priests and the magicians and asked, “What shall we do with the Covenant Box of the LORD? If we send it back where it belongs, what shall we send with it?” 
But people will tell you to ask for messages from fortune tellers and mediums, who chirp and mutter. They will say, “After all, people should ask for messages from the spirits and consult the dead on behalf of the living.” 
Then the LORD spoke to me. 
Joash called the priests and ordered them to save up the money paid in connection with the sacrifices in the Temple, both the dues paid for the regular sacrifices and the money given as freewill gifts. 
Believing in the Law means keeping the Lord's commands. If you trust the Lord, you cannot lose.
The mob was trying to kill Paul, when a report was sent up to the commander of the Roman troops that all Jerusalem was rioting. 
Of course, my brothers and sisters, I really do not think that I have already won it; the one thing I do, however, is to forget what is behind me and do my best to reach what is ahead. 
All the cities of Israel will be destroyed, so that all their altars and their idols will be smashed to pieces, their incense altars will be shattered, and everything they made will disappear. 
Any advice that Ahithophel gave in those days was accepted as though it were the very word of God; both David and Absalom followed it.
they will shine in the sky to give light to the earth” — and it was done. 
The people of Judah say, “We have heard how proud the people of Moab are. We know that they are arrogant and conceited, but their boasts are empty.” 
Rebecca's nurse Deborah died and was buried beneath the oak south of Bethel. So it was named “Oak of Weeping”. 
How fortunate are your wives! And how fortunate your servants, who are always in your presence and are privileged to hear your wise sayings! 
When poor people pray, God hears them and quickly answers their prayers. 
“Be ready for whatever comes, dressed for action and with your lamps lit,  
The emperor, with the empress sitting at his side, approved my request. He asked me how long I would be gone and when I would return, and I told him. 
to take another scroll and write on it everything that had been on the first one. 
An army of locusts has attacked our land; : they are powerful and too many to count; : their teeth are as sharp as those of a lion. 
“Accept these gifts for use in the work to be done for the Tent; give them to the Levites according to the work they have to do.” 
They answered, “You have saved our lives; you have been good to us, sir, and we will be the king's slaves.” 
Then he prepares a suitable place in the wall for it and fastens it in place with iron nails. 
You reject everyone who disobeys your laws; : their deceitful schemes are useless. 
Then I was told, “Once again you must proclaim God's message about many nations, races, languages, and kings.”
What are you plotting against the LORD? : He will destroy you. : No one opposes him more than once. 
Solid food, on the other hand, is for adults, who through practice are able to distinguish between good and evil.
After reaching the very old age of 130, he died. 
Worship the LORD with joy; : come before him with happy songs! 
The woman answered, “You are a Jew, and I am a Samaritan — so how can you ask me for a drink?” (Jews will not use the same cups and bowls that Samaritans use.) 
When the other ten disciples heard about it, they became angry with James and John. 
The LORD has finally done what he threatened to do: : He has destroyed us without mercy, as he warned us long ago. : He gave our enemies victory, gave them joy at our downfall. 
He said, “I agree; but only the one who has taken the cup will become my slave, and the rest of you can go free.” 
The LORD is king for ever. : Your God, O Zion, will reign for all time. : Praise the LORD!
Then she wrote some letters, signed them with Ahab's name, sealed them with his seal, and sent them to the officials and leading citizens of Jezreel. 
Righteous people are sure of themselves; the wicked have to pretend as best they can. 
“This is how I will destroy the pride of Judah and the great pride of Jerusalem. 
I will thank you, O LORD, among the nations. : I will praise you among the peoples. 
There are others who are not remembered, : as if they had never lived, : they died and were forgotten, : they, and their children after them. 
Then the Moabites will be disillusioned with their god Chemosh, just as the Israelites were disillusioned with Bethel, a god in whom they trusted. 
But Paul went down and threw himself on him and hugged him. “Don't worry,” he said, “he is still alive!” 
When that time comes, the Hebrew language will be spoken in five Egyptian cities. The people there will take their oaths in the name of the LORD Almighty. One of the cities will be called, “City of the Sun”. 
“Now speak to them and tell them what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying to them: every Israelite who has given his heart to idols and lets them lead him into sin and who then comes to consult a prophet, will get an answer from me — the answer that his many idols deserve! 
The Jewish authorities said among themselves, “Where is he about to go so that we shall not find him? Will he go to the Greek cities where our people live, and teach the Greeks? 
The descendants of Aram were the people of Uz, Hul, Gether, and Meshek. 
He made an eternal covenant with them : and revealed his commands to them. 
Balak did as he was told, and offered a bull and a ram on each altar.
He said to Shaphan, “I have found the book of the Law here in the Temple.” He gave Shaphan the book, 
Then Jesus told the people this parable: “There was once a man who planted a vineyard, let it out to tenants, and then left home for a long time.  
Those who obey her will give sound judgements; those who pay attention to her have true security. 
and died at the age of 912. 
A man who builds a house receives more honour than the house itself. In the same way Jesus is worthy of much greater honour than Moses. 
The descendants of Egypt were the people of Lydia, Anam, Lehab, Naphtuh, 
In the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar's reign, on the 22nd day of the first month of that year, he and his advisers decided to carry out his threat to take revenge on all those countries that had refused to help him. 
I repeat, I know that this man was snatched to Paradise (again, I do not know whether this actually happened or whether it was a vision — only God knows).
He took his shepherd's stick and then picked up five smooth stones from the stream and put them in his bag. With his sling ready, he went out to meet Goliath. 
and said to him, “Tell us, what right have you to do these things? Who gave you this right?” 
Trust in the LORD and do good; : live in the land and be safe. 
For as woman was made from man, in the same way man is born of woman; and it is God who brings everything into existence. 
he captured King Agag of Amalek alive and killed all the people. 
David continued, “Now, my son, may the LORD your God be with you, and may he keep his promise to make you successful in building a temple for him. 
The people of this city have made me angry and furious from the day it was built. I have decided to destroy it 
Then the angel said to me, “These words are true and can be trusted. And the Lord God, who gives his Spirit to the prophets, has sent his angel to show his servants what must happen very soon.” 
In the time of King Saul the tribe of Reuben attacked the Hagrites, killed them in battle, and occupied their land in the eastern part of Gilead. 
Jesus left that place and went to a synagogue, 
The following is a list of what was captured by the soldiers, in addition to what they kept for themselves: 675,000 sheep and goats, 72,000 cattle, 61,000 donkeys, and 32,000 virgins. 
Since God has allowed him to be happy, he will not worry too much about how short life is.
You pay special attention to certain days, months, seasons, and years. 
You give victory to kings : and rescue your servant David. 
But if someone says to you, “This food was offered to idols,” then do not eat that food, for the sake of the one who told you and for conscience' sake — 
But you do see; you take notice of trouble and suffering : and are always ready to help. : The helpless commit themselves to you; : you have always helped the needy. 
“People of Israel, give thanks among the nations, : where he sent you into exile; 
She brings home food from out-of-the-way places, as merchant ships do. 
Then Peter realized what had happened to him, and said, “Now I know that it is really true! The Lord sent his angel to rescue me from Herod's power and from everything the Jewish people expected to happen.” 
In the time of Zerubbabel and also in the time of Nehemiah, all the people of Israel gave daily gifts for the support of the temple musicians and the temple guards. The people gave a sacred offering to the Levites, and the Levites gave the required portion to the priests.
since they have to do only with food, drink, and various purification ceremonies. These are all outward rules, which apply only until the time when God will establish the new order. 
Terror and dread fall upon them. : They see your strength, O LORD, : and stand helpless with fear : until your people have marched past — : the people you set free from slavery. 
I further command that if anyone disobeys this order, a wooden beam is to be torn out of his house, sharpened at one end, and then driven through his body. And his house is to be made a rubbish heap. 
And eternal life means knowing you, the only true God, and knowing Jesus Christ, whom you sent.  
The Israelites ate manna for the next forty years, until they reached the land of Canaan, where they settled. 
“I am the LORD your God; : I stir up the sea : and make its waves roar. : My name is the LORD Almighty! 
But like an unfaithful wife, : you have not been faithful to me. : I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
I know what you have done; I know how hard you have worked and how patient you have been. I know that you cannot tolerate evil people and that you have tested those who say they are apostles but are not, and have found out that they are liars.  
No liar will live in my palace; : no hypocrite will remain in my presence. 
But God raised him from death, 
The rulers cry out in grief; : their glory is gone! : Listen to the roaring of the lions; : their forest home along the Jordan is destroyed! 
Righteous people — people of integrity — will live in this land of ours. 
Teach me, LORD, what you want me to do, : and lead me along a safe path, : because I have many enemies. 
Do not even swear by your head, because you cannot make a single hair white or black.  
Praise the LORD your God! He has shown how pleased he is with you by making you king, to rule in his name. Because he loves his people Israel and wants to preserve them for ever, he has made you their king so that you can maintain law and justice.” 
Josiah was eight years old when he became king of Judah, and he ruled in Jerusalem for 31 years. His mother was Jedidah, the daughter of Adaiah, from the town of Bozkath. 
A king like my servant David will be their king. They will all be united under one ruler and will obey my laws faithfully. 
He turned to another man and asked him the same question, and every time he asked, he got the same answer. 
How precious, O God, is your constant love! : We find protection under the shadow of your wings. 
I am not laying down any rules. But by showing how eager others are to help, I am trying to find out how real your own love is. 
The gifts started arriving in the third month and continued to pile up for the next four months. 
The natives there were very friendly to us. It had started to rain and was cold, so they lit a fire and made us all welcome. 
(They said this because they had seen Trophimus from Ephesus with Paul in the city, and they thought that Paul had taken him into the Temple.) 
So Ishmael son of Nethaniah, Johanan son of Kareah, Seraiah son of Tanhumeth, the sons of Ephai from Netophah, and Jezaniah from Maacah went with their men to Gedaliah at Mizpah. 
I will send the people far away and make the whole land desolate. 
But the apostles thought that what the women said was nonsense, and they did not believe them. 
Make its tongs and trays of pure gold. 
Israel flits about like a silly pigeon; first her people call on Egypt for help, and then they run to Assyria! 
from suffocation in oppressive smoke : rising from fires I did not light; 
When Saul heard that David had fled to Gath, he gave up trying to find him. 
LORD, do not forget David : and all the hardships he endured. 
My head is spinning, and I am trembling with fear. I had been longing for evening to come, but it has brought me nothing but terror. 
The people of Judah then crowned his sixteen-year-old son Uzziah as king. 
The four horns that came up when the first horn was broken represent the four kingdoms into which that nation will be divided and which will not be as strong as the first kingdom. 
I send greetings to Rufus, that outstanding worker in the Lord's service, and to his mother, who has always treated me like a son. 
and then lose it all in some unlucky deal and end up with nothing left to pass on to their children. 
I have shown you in all things that by working hard in this way we must help the weak, remembering the words that the Lord Jesus himself said, ‘There is more happiness in giving than in receiving.’ ” 
This is my plan for the world, and my arm is stretched out to punish the nations.” 
Some Levite families were responsible for the temple music. The heads of these families lived in some of the temple buildings and were free from other duties, because they were on call day and night. 
Then Jesus answered, “Go away, Satan! The scripture says, ‘Worship the Lord your God and serve only him!’ ” 
When I was in trouble, I called to the LORD, : and he answered me. 
Offer a burnt offering as a food offering to the LORD, a smell pleasing to him: one young bull, one ram, and seven one-year-old male lambs, all without any defects. 
where they began to accuse him: “We caught this man misleading our people, telling them not to pay taxes to the Emperor and claiming that he himself is the Messiah, a king.” 
Even though its roots grow old, : and its stump dies in the ground, 
He will punish them for their wickedness : and destroy them for their sins; : the LORD our God will destroy them.
The LORD says, “The end is near for those who purify themselves for pagan worship, who go in procession to sacred gardens, and who eat pork and mice and other disgusting foods. 
The Lord has overthrown empires and completely devastated their lands. 
Then they launched a strong attack against the Israelites, putting them in a desperate situation. Some of the Israelites hid in caves and holes or among the rocks or in pits and wells; 
I say to the LORD, “You are my Lord; : all the good things I have come from you.” 
So I will send fire upon the city of Teman and burn down the fortresses of Bozrah.” 
Those who bought and sold the sheep hired me, and I became the shepherd of the sheep that were going to be butchered. I took two sticks: one I called “Favour”, and the other “Unity”. And I took care of the flock. 
Listen to what the LORD says, you that fear him and obey him: “Because you are faithful to me, some of your own people hate you and will have nothing to do with you. They mock you and say, ‘Let the LORD show his greatness and save you, so that we may see you rejoice.’ But they themselves will be disgraced! 
Job, do you think we can't answer you? : That your mocking words will leave us speechless? 
You think I am talking nothing but wind; : then why do you answer my words of despair? 
But if any nation will not obey, then I will completely uproot it and destroy it. I, the LORD, have spoken.”
Their territory included Jazer and all the cities of Gilead, half the land of Ammon as far as Aroer, which is east of Rabbah; 
I, too, am a man placed under the authority of superior officers, and I have soldiers under me. I order this one, ‘Go!’ and he goes; I order that one, ‘Come!’ and he comes; and I order my slave, ‘Do this!’ and he does it.” 
and there you are to sacrifice and eat your fellowship offerings and be grateful in the presence of the LORD your God. 
Every man stood in his place round the camp, and the whole enemy army ran away yelling. 
The wealthy cheat and rob. They ill-treat the poor and take advantage of foreigners. 
He scolds the nations — won't he punish them? : He is the teacher of all — hasn't he any knowledge? 
Do not try to rule over those who have been put in your care, but be examples to the flock. 
Jerusalem will be like a ghost struggling to speak from under the ground, a muffled voice coming from the dust. 
but if you drink when you are angry and upset, it leads to headaches, embarrassment, and disgrace.  
Do not be fooled. “Bad companions ruin good character.” 
She died in Hebron in the land of Canaan, and Abraham mourned her death. 
and each one killed the man he fought. The Syrians fled, with the Israelites in hot pursuit, but Benhadad escaped on horseback, accompanied by some of the cavalry. 
The bronze altar which had been made by Bezalel, the son of Uri and grandson of Hur, was also in Gibeon in front of the Tent of the LORD's presence. King Solomon and all the people worshipped the LORD there. 
Those who love your law have perfect security, : and there is nothing that can make them fall. 
Go and tell Jeroboam that this is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says to him: ‘I chose you from among the people and made you the ruler of my people Israel. 
Do not use the same formula to make any incense like it for yourselves. Treat it as a holy thing dedicated to me. 
Praise the LORD, O Jerusalem! : Praise your God, O Zion! 
So Samuel went back with him, and Saul worshipped the LORD. 
But you dishonour the poor! Who are the ones who oppress you and drag you before the judges? The rich! 
David said to Saul, “Your Majesty, no one should be afraid of this Philistine! I will go and fight him.” 
Throughout the land I will put a stop to immorality, as a warning to every woman not to commit adultery as they did. 
How can anyone argue with him? : He can ask a thousand questions : that no one could ever answer. 
If you come to a town where people do not welcome you or will not listen to you, leave it and shake the dust off your feet. That will be a warning to them!” 
Then the LORD will be king over all the earth; everyone will worship him as God and know him by the same name. 
For this reason I tell you: when you pray and ask for something, believe that you have received it, and you will be given whatever you ask for.  
The first Adam, made of earth, came from the earth; the second Adam came from heaven. 
We are witnesses of everything that he did in the land of Israel and in Jerusalem. Then they put him to death by nailing him to a cross. 
“Men will hand over their own brothers to be put to death, and fathers will do the same to their children; children will turn against their parents and have them put to death.  
Then a man came in and said to them, “Listen! The men you put in prison are in the Temple teaching the people!” 
Even then, many of the Jewish authorities believed in Jesus; but because of the Pharisees they did not talk about it openly, so as not to be expelled from the synagogue. 
The LORD Almighty answers, “I will send my messenger to prepare the way for me. Then the Lord you are looking for will suddenly come to his Temple. The messenger you long to see will come and proclaim my covenant.” 
So I, in turn, will make the people of Israel despise you because you do not obey my will, and when you teach my people, you do not treat everyone alike.” 
And so, because he died, sin has no power over him; and now he lives his life in fellowship with God. 
But when that time comes, I will make Jerusalem like a heavy stone — any nation that tries to lift it will be hurt. All the nations of the world will join forces to attack her. 
Why do you keep me under guard? : Do you think I am a sea monster? 
They are all experts at doing evil. Officials and judges ask for bribes. The influential person tells them what he wants, and so they scheme together.  
Don't give in to worry or anger; : it only leads to trouble. 
You people who live in Jerusalem will not weep any more. The LORD is compassionate, and when you cry to him for help, he will answer you. 
After Jesus had said this prayer, he left with his disciples and went across the brook called Kidron. There was a garden in that place, and Jesus and his disciples went in. 
Moses went up Mount Sinai, and a cloud covered it. 
He said to them, “You have done everything that Moses the LORD's servant ordered you to do, and you have obeyed all my commands. 
As the scripture says: : “All human beings are like grass, : and all their glory is like wild flowers. : The grass withers, and the flowers fall, 
He said, “Tell the people of the land and the priests that when they fasted and mourned in the fifth and seventh months during these seventy years, it was not in honour of me. 
If wickedness makes you happy, you will be condemned. 
As Jannes and Jambres were opposed to Moses, so also these people are opposed to the truth — people whose minds do not function and who are failures in the faith. 
The LORD alone is God; : God alone is our defence. 
If you are not willing to serve him, decide today whom you will serve, the gods your ancestors worshipped in Mesopotamia or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you are now living. As for my family and me, we will serve the LORD.” 
I would like all of you to speak in strange tongues; but I would rather that you had the gift of proclaiming God's message. For the person who proclaims God's message is of greater value than the one who speaks in strange tongues — unless there is someone present who can explain what is said, so that the whole church may be helped. 
The LORD says, “The time is coming when I will make a new covenant with the people of Israel and with the people of Judah. 
The people honoured him for killing his tens of thousands, and when he was crowned king, they praised him for being chosen by the Lord. 
The priest shall examine him again on the seventh day, and if it is spreading, it is a dreaded skin disease, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean. 
You should not travel with anyone who is reckless. It will cause you nothing but trouble. He will do any foolish thing he pleases, and you will die with him. 
Come on now, let's kill him and throw his body into one of the dry wells. We can say that a wild animal killed him. Then we will see what becomes of his dreams.” 
on the border of Edom. There the LORD said to Moses and Aaron, 
But one day when Joseph went into the house to do his work, none of the house servants was there. 
The enemy was watching for us; we could not even walk in the streets. : Our days were over; the end had come. 
Watch out, and be on guard against him, even if he pretends to be ever so humble. He is like a metal mirror that rusts away if you don't keep it polished. 
But God said to him, “What right have you to be angry about the plant?” : Jonah replied, “I have every right to be angry — angry enough to die!” 
Has God forgotten to be merciful? : Has anger taken the place of his compassion?” 
Do not listen to the prophets who tell you not to surrender to him. They are deceiving you. 
You should not have stood at the crossroads : to catch those trying to escape. : You should not have handed them over to the enemy : on the day of their distress. 
“Then, if anyone says to you, ‘Look, here is the Messiah!’ or ‘There he is!’ — do not believe it.  
If a man has sexual intercourse with her during her period, he is contaminated by her impurity and remains unclean for seven days, and any bed on which he lies is unclean. 
You have caused my friends to abandon me; : you have made me repulsive to them. : I am closed in and cannot escape; 
Summon the nations to come to the trial. : Which of their gods can predict the future? : Which of them foretold what is happening now? : Let these gods bring in their witnesses : to prove that they are right, : to testify to the truth of their words. 
Then he set up military camps in their territory, and they became his subjects and paid taxes to him. The LORD made David victorious everywhere. 
No one can deny how great is the secret of our religion: : He appeared in human form, : was shown to be right by the Spirit, : and was seen by angels. : He was preached among the nations, : was believed in throughout the world, : and was taken up to heaven.
Do not rebuke an older man, but appeal to him as if he were your father. Treat the younger men as your brothers, 
He shall take the other bird and dip it, together with the cedar wood, the red cord, and the hyssop, in the blood of the bird that was killed. 
“Then we crossed the River Zered as the LORD told us to do. 
The young woman ran to her mother's house and told the whole story. 
The message was sent to Jezebel: “Naboth has been put to death.” 
I will send diseases on you and make blood flow in your streets. You will be attacked from every side, and your people will be killed. Then you will know that I am the LORD.” 
I went because God revealed to me that I should go. In a private meeting with the leaders I explained the gospel message that I preach to the Gentiles. I did not want my work in the past or in the present to be a failure. 
They took the best of the land for themselves; : A leader's share was assigned to them. : They obeyed the LORD's commands and laws : When the leaders of Israel were gathered together.” 
You say, ‘How tired we are of all this!’ and you turn up your nose at me. As your offering to me you bring a stolen animal or one that is lame or sick. Do you think I will accept that from you? 
“In the meantime the elder son was out in the field. On his way back, when he came close to the house, he heard the music and dancing.  
Because of such things God's anger will come upon those who do not obey him.  
This same matter is spoken of again: “They will never enter that land where I would have given them rest.” 
Do this at once, so that no more harm may be done to my interests.” 
Praise the LORD, the God of Israel! : Praise him now and for ever! : Amen! Amen!
“Why did my people fail to respond : when I went to them to save them? : Why did they not answer when I called? : Am I too weak to save them? : I can dry up the sea with a command : and turn rivers into a desert, : so that the fish in them die for lack of water. 
But the king made Joab and his officers obey his order; they left his presence and went out to count the people of Israel. 
“But you say, ‘What the Lord does isn't right.’ Listen to me, you Israelites. Do you think my way of doing things isn't right? It is your way that isn't right. 
“What can we say to you, sir?” Judah answered. “How can we argue? How can we clear ourselves? God has uncovered our guilt. All of us are now your slaves and not just the one with whom the cup was found.” 
so he took his men, divided them into three groups, and hid in the fields, waiting. When he saw the people coming out of the city, he came out of hiding to kill them. 
And so the place was called Beersheba, because it was there that the two of them made a vow. 
when a storm swept in from the desert. It blew the house down and killed them all. I am the only one who escaped to tell you.” 
Children are a gift from the LORD; : they are a real blessing. 
to redeem those who were under the Law, so that we might become God's sons and daughters. 
In a dream that night God came to Laban and said to him, “Be careful not to threaten Jacob in any way.” 
The Spirit's presence is shown in some way in each person for the good of all. 
You may choose either a sheep or a goat, but it must be a one-year-old male without any defects. 
Violent people deceive their friends and lead them to disaster. 
So they got rid of their foreign gods and worshipped the LORD; and he became troubled over Israel's distress. 
Deeply moved once more, Jesus went to the tomb, which was a cave with a stone placed at the entrance. 
So Benaiah went to the Tent of the LORD's presence and killed Joab, and he was buried at his home in the open country. 
All these were descendants of Asher. They were heads of families, famous fighting men, outstanding leaders. Asher's descendants included 26,000 men eligible for military service.
And I saw a mighty angel, who announced in a loud voice, “Who is worthy to break the seals and open the scroll?” 
Of the silver, 3.4 tonnes were used to make the hundred bases for the sacred Tent and for the curtain, 34 kilogrammes for each base. 
Two wings of each creature were spread out so that the creatures formed a square with their wing tips touching. When they moved, they moved as a group without turning their bodies. 
The LORD hates people who use dishonest scales. He is happy with honest weights. 
We admire the strength of youth and respect the grey hair of age. 
Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. 
to give the following regulations to the people of Israel. When you enter the land that the LORD is giving you, you shall honour the LORD by not cultivating the land every seventh year. 
Accept one another, then, for the glory of God, as Christ has accepted you. 
He commanded, and the locusts came, : countless millions of them; 
The gates of the city will stand open all day; they will never be closed, because there will be no night there. 
Bring it as an offering to the LORD and present it to the priest, who will take it to the altar. 
The people of Israel sinned against the LORD again. Because of this the LORD made King Eglon of Moab stronger than Israel. 
Moses then put all the sticks in the Tent in front of the LORD's Covenant Box. 
Is there no medicine in Gilead? : Are there no doctors there? : Why, then, have my people not been healed?
The people of Heshbon and Elealeh cry out, and their cry can be heard as far away as Jahaz. Even the soldiers tremble; their courage is gone. 
The people of Judah have as many gods as they have cities, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem have set up as many altars for sacrifices to that disgusting god Baal as there are streets in the city. 
The king of Syria will return home with all the loot he has captured, determined to destroy the religion of God's people. He will do as he pleases and then return to his own land. 
But that is not all; we rejoice because of what God has done through our Lord Jesus Christ, who has now made us God's friends. 
Finally, when it got late, the guests excused themselves and left. Bagoas then closed up the tent from the outside and prevented Holofernes' servants from going in. So they all went to bed; everyone was very tired because the banquet had lasted so long. 
Herod wanted to kill him, but he was afraid of the Jewish people, because they considered John to be a prophet. 
So Moses said to the people, “Get ready for war, so that you can attack Midian and punish them for what they did to the LORD. 
King Ahab answered, “Tell King Benhadad that a real soldier does his boasting after a battle, not before it.” 
oil for the lamps; spices for the anointing oil and for the sweet-smelling incense; 
Why should you give your love to another woman, my son? Why should you prefer the charms of another man's wife? 
It continued east from there to Gath Hepher and Ethkazin, turning in the direction of Neah on the way to Rimmon. 
Then in his vision Balaam saw the Amalekites and uttered this prophecy: : “Amalek was the most powerful nation of all, : But at the end it will perish for ever.” 
And now you want me to go and tell him that you are here? 
You worshipped God, and your life was blameless; : and so you should have confidence and hope. 
“Now I have raised my hand to punish you and to take away your share of my blessing. I have handed you over to the Philistines, who hate you and are disgusted with your immoral actions. 
Don't I have the right to do as I wish with my own money? Or are you jealous because I am generous?’ ” 
Then I asked him to grant me the favour of giving me letters to the governors of West Euphrates Province, instructing them to let me travel to Judah. 
So they said to him: “Now then, tell us! Who is to blame for this? What are you doing here? What country do you come from? What is your nationality?” 
There is a deep secret truth revealed in this scripture, which I understand as applying to Christ and the church. 
So Gideon said, “All right! When the LORD has handed Zebah and Zalmunna over to me, I will beat you with thorns and briars from the desert!” 
The war which had begun between Rehoboam and Jeroboam continued throughout Abijah's lifetime. 
To this very moment we go hungry and thirsty; we are clothed in rags; we are beaten; we wander from place to place; 
Joshua conquered all these kings and their territory in one campaign because the LORD, Israel's God, was fighting for Israel. 
Instead, all those who eat sour grapes will have their own teeth set on edge; and they will all die because of their own sin.” 
Saul told his son Jonathan and all his officials that he planned to kill David. But Jonathan was very fond of David, 
When the LORD goes through Egypt to kill the Egyptians, he will see the blood on the beams and the doorposts and will not let the Angel of Death enter your houses and kill you. 
Those who say that they know him, but do not obey his commands, are liars and there is no truth in them. 
“When that time comes, the Lord will hire a barber from across the Euphrates — the emperor of Assyria! — and he will shave off your beards, and the hair on your heads and your bodies. 
and do not interfere with its construction. Let the governor of Judah and the Jewish leaders rebuild the Temple of God where it stood before. 
He sent messengers ahead of him, who went into a village in Samaria to get everything ready for him. 
He also put up an image of the goddess Asherah. He did more to arouse the anger of the LORD, the God of Israel, than all the kings of Israel before him. 
There would be nothing that nations could do : to keep godless oppressors from ruling them. 
“Why?” the king asked. “Have I failed to give you something? Is that why you want to go back home?” : “Just let me go,” Hadad answered the king. And he went back to his country. : As king of Edom, Hadad was an evil, bitter enemy of Israel. 
What a record all of these have won by their faith! Yet they did not receive what God had promised, 
John's father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit, and he spoke God's message
A few of the people of Israel will come back to their mighty God. 
The LORD kills and restores to life; : he sends people to the world of the dead : and brings them back again. 
Whenever I speak, I have to cry out : and shout, “Violence! Destruction!” :   LORD, I am ridiculed and scorned all the time : because I proclaim your message. 
But when I reached the Benjamin Gate, the officer in charge of the soldiers on duty there, a man by the name of Irijah, the son of Shelemiah and grandson of Hananiah, stopped me and said, “You are deserting to the Babylonians!” 
Put your trust in Wisdom, and you will possess her and pass her on to your descendants. 
The Israelites kept for themselves the livestock and goods captured in the city, as the LORD had told Joshua. 
Joseph made slaves of the people from one end of Egypt to the other. 
For there is nothing that God cannot do.” 
My children, plead with your mother — though she is no longer a wife to me, and I am no longer her husband. Plead with her to stop her adultery and prostitution. 
I was beside him like an architect, : I was his daily source of joy, : always happy in his presence — 
Let us give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! For in our union with Christ he has blessed us by giving us every spiritual blessing in the heavenly world. 
Their outstretched wings covered the box and the poles it was carried by. 
To this the LORD replied, “If you return, I will take you back, and you will be my servant again. If instead of talking nonsense you proclaim a worthwhile message, you will be my prophet again. The people will come back to you, and you will not need to go to them. 
I am torn apart by worry and pain; : I have had day after day of suffering. 
Then Moses and Aaron went to the king of Egypt and said, “The LORD, the God of Israel, says, ‘Let my people go, so that they can hold a festival in the desert to honour me.’ ” 
Listen while I state my case. 
Then Samson prayed, “Sovereign LORD, please remember me; please, God, give me my strength just once more, so that with this one blow I can get even with the Philistines for putting out my two eyes.” 
For we know who said, “I will take revenge, I will repay”; and who also said, “The Lord will judge his people.” 
Be generous and share your food with the poor. You will be blessed for it. 
In the first year that Belshazzar was king of Babylonia, I had a dream and saw a vision in the night. I wrote the dream down, and this is the record 
It will strike you again and again, morning after morning. You will have to bear it day and night. Each new message from God will bring new terror! 
But you must be strong and not be discouraged. The work that you do will be rewarded.” 
Then the dazzling light of the presence of the God of Israel rose up from the winged creatures, where it had been, and moved to the entrance of the Temple. The LORD called to the man dressed in linen, 
God had not forgotten Noah and all the animals with him in the boat; he caused a wind to blow, and the water started going down. 
Because he had many herds of sheep and cattle and many servants, the Philistines were jealous of him. 
When short blasts are sounded, the tribes camped on the east will move out. 
Out in the wilds they howled like animals : and huddled together under the bushes. 
“Where is Mephibosheth, the grandson of your master Saul?” the king asked him. : “He is staying in Jerusalem,” Ziba answered, “because he is convinced that the Israelites will now restore to him the kingdom of his grandfather Saul.” 
but since you have plenty at this time, it is only fair that you should help those who are in need. Then, when you are in need and they have plenty, they will help you. In this way both are treated equally. 
This amount equalled the total paid by all persons enrolled in the census, each one paying the required amount, weighed according to the official standard. There were 603,550 men twenty years old or older enrolled in the census. 
Why, God, did you let me be born? : I should have died before anyone saw me. 
Have you ever seen anyone like this man Job? : He never shows respect for God. 
The following children were born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon, 
David saw by this that the LORD had answered his prayer, so he offered sacrifices on the altar at Araunah's threshing place. 
The same is true of a woman who is unfaithful to her husband and presents him with a child by another man. 
I beg you, my brothers and sisters, be like me. After all, I am like you. You have not done me any wrong. 
when I broke the five loaves for the 5,000 people? How many baskets full of leftover pieces did you take up?” : “Twelve,” they answered. 
The fighting was heavy round Saul, and he was hit by enemy arrows and badly wounded. 
So I will send fire upon the palace built by King Hazael and I will burn down the fortresses of King Benhadad. 
like dogs roaming about for food : and growling if they do not find enough. 
That is why the rains were held back, and the spring showers did not come. You even look like a prostitute; you have no shame. 
While Jesus was saying this, some messengers came from Jairus' house and told him, “Your daughter has died. Why bother the Teacher any longer?” 
The angel told me to give Zerubbabel this message from the LORD: “You will succeed, not by military might or by your own strength, but by my spirit. 
The creatures were standing to the south of the Temple when he went in, and a cloud filled the inner courtyard. 
Listen to this, people of Israel, : you that are descended from Judah: : You swear by the name of the LORD : and claim to worship the God of Israel — : but you don't mean a word you say. 
The LORD will appear above his people; : he will shoot his arrows like lightning. : The Sovereign LORD will sound the trumpet; : he will march in the storms from the south. 
“Do not give what is holy to dogs — they will only turn and attack you. Do not throw your pearls in front of pigs — they will only trample them underfoot. 
But how can they call to him for help if they have not believed? And how can they believe if they have not heard the message? And how can they hear if the message is not proclaimed? 
between the Egyptians and the Israelites. The cloud made it dark for the Egyptians, but gave light to the people of Israel, and so the armies could not come near each other all night. 
Each governor also supplied his share of barley and straw, where it was needed, for the chariot horses and the draught animals. 
The Lord destroyed without mercy every village in Judah : And tore down the forts that defended the land. : He brought disgrace on the kingdom and its rulers. 
So then, when a person swears by the altar, he is swearing by it and by all the gifts on it;  
“So we moved on and left the road that goes from the towns of Elath and Eziongeber to the Dead Sea, and we turned north-east towards Moab. 
The Edomites and the Ammonites went up into the mountains and set up their camp opposite the town of Dothan. They sent some of their men to the south-east in the direction of Acraba, near Chusi, which is beside the River Mochmur. The rest of the Assyrian army set up camp in the valley. Their camp was spread out over the whole countryside, because the number of tents and the amount of equipment needed for such a large army were immense. 
Why do you avoid me? : Why do you treat me like an enemy? 
“It isn't a man speaking, but a god!” they shouted. 
He shall put some of the oil on the same places as he put the blood: on the lobe of the person's right ear, on the thumb of his right-hand, and on the big toe of his right foot. 
So I came to regret that I had worked so hard. 
Turn the millstone! Grind the flour! : Off with your veil! Strip off your fine clothes! : Lift up your skirts to cross the streams! 
But I will punish them — I will shave their heads and leave them bald.” 
Son, eat honey; it is good. And just as honey from the comb is sweet on your tongue, 
When you have children, disaster will strike them and you will be left with nothing but sorrow. There will be great joy whenever you stumble, and even after your death you will be cursed. 
They must thank the LORD for his constant love, : for the wonderful things he did for them. 
I told you what the LORD had said, but you paid no attention. You rebelled against him, and in your pride you marched into the hill country. 
The LORD said to me, “Go again and show your love for a woman who is committing adultery with a lover. You must love her just as I still love the people of Israel, even though they turn to other gods and like to take offerings of raisins to idols.” 
The night is nearly over, day is almost here. Let us stop doing the things that belong to the dark, and let us take up weapons for fighting in the light. 
But we serve Nebuchadnezzar, and we will beat them as easily as if their whole army were one man. They will not be able to hold their ground against our cavalry; 
Saul's sons were Jonathan, Ishvi, and Malchishua. His elder daughter was named Merab, and the younger one Michal. 
The seeds that fell among thorn bushes stand for those who hear the message; but the worries about this life and the love for riches choke the message, and they don't bear fruit.  
Jesus, then, is the High Priest that meets our needs. He is holy; he has no fault or sin in him; he has been set apart from sinners and raised above the heavens. 
My lover has gone to his garden, : where the balsam trees grow. : He is feeding his flock in the garden : and gathering lilies. 
He said to the people of Judah, “Let us fortify the cities by building walls and towers, and gates that can be shut and barred. We have control of the land because we have done the will of the LORD our God. He has protected us and given us security on every side.” And so they built and prospered. 
I speak now as though you were my children: show us the same feelings that we have for you. Open your hearts wide! 
He will wear justice like a coat of armour and saving power like a helmet. He will clothe himself with the strong desire to set things right and to punish and avenge the wrongs that people suffer. 
Wisdom has built her house and made seven pillars for it. 
“You will find out when you go into some back room to hide,” Micaiah replied. 
He has unusual ability and is wise and skilful in interpreting dreams, solving riddles, and explaining mysteries; so send for this man Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar, and he will tell you what all this means.” 
Israel, you are like a young wife, : deserted by her husband and deeply distressed. : But the LORD calls you back to him and says
And those who belong to Christ Jesus have put to death their human nature with all its passions and desires. 
My message is like a fire, and like a hammer that breaks rocks in pieces. 
I heard a voice call out over the River Ulai, “Gabriel, explain to him the meaning of what he saw.” 
Then I said, “The LORD sent me to proclaim everything that you heard me say against this Temple and against this city. 
They arrested Judith and questioned her, “What is your nationality? Where did you come from, and where are you going?” : “I am a Hebrew,” she answered, “but I am running away from the Israelites because God is going to let you destroy them. 
Malchijah son of Rechab, ruler of the Beth Haccherem District, rebuilt the Rubbish Gate. He put the gates in place, and put in the bolts and the bars for locking the gate. 
I will not be dishonest, : and will have no dealings with evil. 
The Sovereign LORD Almighty himself spoke to me and said, “This evil will never be forgiven them as long as they live. I, the Sovereign LORD Almighty, have spoken.” 
If you are wise, you will believe in the Law; you will find it as reliable as the sacred lots. 
The news about this spread all over that part of the country. 
Behind the second curtain was the Tent called the Most Holy Place. 
I prayed, “O Lord, you are my father; : do not abandon me to my troubles : when I am helpless against arrogant enemies. 
but he opposes those who do evil, : so that when they die, they are soon forgotten. 
He shall kill the lamb in the place where the animals for the sin offerings and the burnt offerings are killed. He must do this because the repayment offering, like the sin offering, belongs to the priest and is very holy. 
As for Titus, he is my partner and works with me to help you; as for the other brothers who are going with him, they represent the churches and bring glory to Christ. 
These cities and their towns were in the land which the families of the tribe of Issachar received as their possession. 
But she replied, “Be quiet and leave me alone! Don't try to fool me. My son is dead.” Each day she would rush out of the house to the road which Tobias had taken and would watch for him until sunset. She would let no one comfort her, and when she returned home she would weep and mourn for her son all night long, without sleeping. : The two-week wedding feast which Raguel had promised to hold for his daughter Sarah came to an end. So Tobias went to him and asked, “Please let me go home now. I'm certain my parents have given up all hope of ever seeing me again. Please, Raguel, let me go home to my father. I have already told you the condition he was in when I left.” 
“Mortal man,” he said, “denounce the country of Edom. 
Any person, Israelite or foreigner, who eats meat from an animal that has died a natural death or has been killed by wild animals must wash his clothes, have a bath, and wait until evening before he is ritually clean. 
I trembled and shuddered; : my whole body shook with fear. 
The LORD says, “The people of Israel have not stopped sinning against me since the time of their sin at Gibeah. So at Gibeah war will catch up with them. 
At once the believers sent Paul away to the coast; but both Silas and Timothy stayed in Berea. 
How wonderful are your gifts to me; : how good they are! 
Again the man sent other slaves, more than the first time, and the tenants treated them the same way.  
He took the people of the city and put them to work with saws, iron hoes, and axes. He did the same to the people of all the other towns of Ammon. Then he and his men returned to Jerusalem. 
none of these people will live to enter that land. They have seen the dazzling light of my presence and the miracles that I performed in Egypt and in the wilderness, but they have tried my patience over and over again and have refused to obey me. 
Laban had seen the nose-ring and the bracelets on his sister's arms and had heard her say what the man had told her. He went to Abraham's servant, who was standing by his camels at the well, 
Sensible people accept good advice. People who talk foolishly will come to ruin. 
and said to him, “If you are God's Son, throw yourself down, for the scripture says: : ‘God will give orders to his angels about you; : they will hold you up with their hands, : so that not even your feet will be hurt on the stones.’ ” 
David promised that he would. : Then Saul went back home, and David and his men went back to their hiding place.
In the same way urge the young men to be self-controlled. 
You yourselves saw what the LORD did at Mount Peor. He destroyed everyone who worshipped Baal there, 
Erastus stayed in Corinth, and I left Trophimus in Miletus, because he was ill. 
The Israelites did things that the LORD their God disapproved of. They built pagan places of worship in all their towns, from the smallest village to the largest city. 
The LORD then said to Moses, “Early tomorrow morning meet with the king and tell him that the LORD, the God of the Hebrews, says, ‘Let my people go, so that they may worship me. 
The LORD made the Amorites panic at the sight of Israel's army. The Israelites slaughtered them at Gibeon and pursued them down the mountain pass at Beth Horon, keeping up the attack as far south as Azekah and Makkedah. 
The chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where Jesus was, he must report it, so that they could arrest him.
I rescued you from the Egyptians and from the people who fought against you here in this land. I drove them out as you advanced, and I gave you their land. 
He gave their lands to his people; : his love is eternal; 
and if you leave him to serve foreign gods, he will turn against you and punish you. He will destroy you, even though he was good to you before.” 
After you read this letter, make sure that it is read also in the church at Laodicea. At the same time, you are to read the letter that the brothers and sisters in Laodicea will send you. 
You call him Father, when you pray to God, who judges all people by the same standard, according to what each one has done; so then, spend the rest of your lives here on earth in reverence for him. 
“Suppose you hear that in one of your towns some man or woman has sinned against the LORD and broken his covenant 
God passes by, but I cannot see him. 
This is what the Sovereign LORD says: : “I will take the top of a tall cedar : and break off a tender sprout; : I will plant it on a high mountain, 
The Sovereign LORD says, “A city in Israel sends out a thousand soldiers, but only a hundred return; another city sends out a hundred, but only ten come back.” 
At a camping place on the way to Egypt, the LORD met Moses and tried to kill him. 
“Teacher,” the disciples answered, “just a short time ago the people there wanted to stone you; and are you planning to go back?” 
that if any disaster struck them to punish them — a war, an epidemic, or a famine — then they could come and stand in front of this Temple where you are worshipped. They could pray to you in their trouble, and you would hear them and rescue them. 
But this is what the holy God of Israel says: “You ignore what I tell you and rely on violence and deceit. 
Shephatiah son of Mattan, Gedaliah son of Pashhur, Jehucal son of Shelemiah, and Pashhur son of Malchiah heard that I was telling the people that 
So the Egyptians put slave-drivers over them to crush their spirits with hard labour. The Israelites built the cities of Pithom and Rameses to serve as supply centres for the king. 
and you are on the other side of the Jordan, set up these stones on Mount Ebal, as I am instructing you today, and cover them with plaster. 
The LORD your God has made you as numerous as the stars in the sky. 
“Suppose a man has two wives and they both bear him sons, but the first son is not the child of his favourite wife. 
After a life of suffering, he will again have joy; : he will know that he did not suffer in vain. : My devoted servant, with whom I am pleased, : will bear the punishment of many : and for his sake I will forgive them. 
Then the Lamb broke open the fourth seal; and I heard the fourth living creature say, “Come!” 
Balak did as he was told, and he and Balaam offered a bull and a ram on each altar. 
People who fear the Lord are fortunate, because they know where they can look for help. 
God has made us what we are, and in our union with Christ Jesus he has created us for a life of good deeds, which he has already prepared for us to do. 
and in this way set free those who were slaves all their lives because of their fear of death. 
Your Creator will be like a husband to you — : the LORD Almighty is his name. : The holy God of Israel will save you — : he is the ruler of all the world. 
Those who abandon their parents or give them cause for anger may as well be cursing the Lord; they are already under the Lord's curse. 
How terrible it will be for you that stretch out on your luxurious couches, feasting on veal and lamb! 
Next, Moses brought the ram for the burnt offering, and Aaron and his sons put their hands on its head. 
Abimelech came from Gerar with Ahuzzath his adviser and Phicol the commander of his army to see Isaac. 
Each one of the four living creatures had six wings, and they were covered with eyes, inside and out. Day and night they never stop singing: : “Holy, holy, holy, is the Lord God Almighty, : who was, who is, and who is to come.” 
Saul died because he was unfaithful to the LORD. He disobeyed the LORD's commands; he tried to find guidance by consulting the spirits of the dead 
Now let me give you some good advice, and God will be with you. It is right for you to represent the people before God and bring their disputes to him. 
Becher had nine sons: Zemirah, Joash, Eliezer, Elioenai, Omri, Jeremoth, Abijah, Anathoth, and Alemeth. 
“Respect your father and mother” is the first commandment that has a promise added
The priest will examine him again, and if it has spread, he shall pronounce him unclean; it is a dreaded skin disease. 
If you have a good wife, do not divorce her, but do not trust yourself to someone you don't love. 
Abishai son of Zeruiah spoke up: “Shimei should be put to death because he cursed the one whom the LORD chose as king.” 
We must thank God at all times for you, brothers and sisters, you whom the Lord loves. For God chose you as the first to be saved by the Spirit's power to make you his holy people and by your faith in the truth. 
Tell the people of Israel that whenever a man dies without leaving a son, his daughter is to inherit his property. 
She kept on asking him, day after day. He got so sick and tired of her nagging him about it 
In the full assembly I will praise you for what you have done; : in the presence of those who worship you : I will offer the sacrifices I promised. 
At once he was able to see, and he followed Jesus, giving thanks to God. When the crowd saw it, they all praised God.
We always give thanks to God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you. 
and say, “How terrible! How awful for the great city! She used to dress herself in linen, purple, and scarlet, and cover herself with gold ornaments, precious stones, and pearls! 
Now give orders for your livestock and everything else you have in the open to be put under shelter. Hail will fall on the people and animals left outside unprotected, and they will all die.’ ” 
Then Ruth said, “Best of all, he told me to keep picking up corn with his workers until they finish the harvest.” 
Don't ill-treat servants who do their work well, or employees who do their best for you. 
I once called them a leafy olive tree, full of beautiful fruit; but now, with a roar like thunder I will set its leaves on fire and break its branches. 
Then Jesus took a cup, gave thanks to God, and said, “Take this and share it among yourselves.  
He must bring to the priest as a repayment offering a male sheep or goat without any defects. Its value is to be determined according to the official standard. The priest shall offer the sacrifice for the sin which the man committed unintentionally, and he will be forgiven. 
John said to him, “Teacher, we saw a man who was driving out demons in your name, and we told him to stop, because he doesn't belong to our group.” 
The Philistines gathered for battle in Socoh, a town in Judah; they camped at a place called Ephes Dammim, between Socoh and Azekah. 
The wicked are trapped by their own words, but honest people get themselves out of trouble. 
Some of you have become proud because you have thought that I would not be coming to visit you. 
So you have no reason to fear me; : I will not overpower you. 
hear their prayer. Listen to them in your home in heaven, forgive them, and help them. You alone know the thoughts of the human heart. Deal with each person as he deserves, 
Honest people are safe and secure, but the dishonest will be caught. 
“Simeon and Levi are brothers. : They use their weapons to commit violence. 
I was a stranger but you would not welcome me in your homes, naked but you would not clothe me; I was sick and in prison but you would not take care of me.’ 
This will keep him from thinking that he is better than his fellow-Israelites and from disobeying the LORD's commands in any way. Then he will reign for many years, and his descendants will rule Israel for many generations.
Christ did this in order that the blessing which God promised to Abraham might be given to the Gentiles by means of Christ Jesus, so that through faith we might receive the Spirit promised by God. 
You Samaritans do not really know whom you worship; but we Jews know whom we worship, because it is from the Jews that salvation comes.  
He made all kinds of beautiful trees grow there and produce good fruit. In the middle of the garden stood the tree that gives life and the tree that gives knowledge of what is good and what is bad. 
The LORD said, “For seven days you must not eat any bread made with yeast — eat only unleavened bread. On the first day you are to get rid of all the yeast in your houses, for if anyone during those seven days eats bread made with yeast, he shall no longer be considered one of my people. 
Then Job answered the LORD. 
While they were at the table eating, Jesus said, “I tell you that one of you will betray me — one who is eating with me.” 
The border then turned to Ramah, reaching the fortified city of Tyre; then it turned to Hosah and ended at the Mediterranean Sea. It included Mahalab, Achzib, 
Those who hear the message about the Kingdom but do not understand it are like the seeds that fell along the path. The Evil One comes and snatches away what was sown in them.  
so he and his men made a stand in the middle of the field and fought the Philistines. The LORD gave him a great victory. 
He will cover you with his wings; : you will be safe in his care; : his faithfulness will protect and defend you. 
What answer did God give him? “I have kept for myself 7,000 men who have not worshipped the false god Baal.” 
Help us against the enemy; : human help is worthless. 
Abner and the officials of Ishbosheth went from Mahanaim to the city of Gibeon. 
The one who reaps the harvest is being paid and gathers the crops for eternal life; so another who sows and the one who reaps will be glad together.  
He gives me victory over my enemies; : he subdues the nations under me 
So Ebedmelech went with the men to the palace storeroom and got some worn-out clothing which he let down to me by ropes. 
and said to Moses, “Take all the leaders of Israel and, in obedience to me, execute them in broad daylight, and then I will no longer be angry with the people.” 
He gave each nation its own ruler, but Israel is the Lord's own possession.  
How I pray that victory : will come to Israel from Zion. : How happy the people of Israel will be : when God makes them prosperous again!
They go to Egypt for help without asking for my advice. They want Egypt to protect them, so they put their trust in Egypt's king. 
You drive the women of my people out of the homes they love, and you have robbed their children of my blessings for ever. 
Do you want to have wide experience? Wisdom knows the lessons of history and can anticipate the future. She knows how to interpret what people say and how to solve problems. She knows the miracles that God will perform, and how the movements of history will develop. 
Leave all your worries with him, because he cares for you. 
Fresh as the morning, as sure as the sunrise. 
He shall pour some holy water into a clay bowl and take some of the earth that is on the floor of the Tent of the LORD's presence and put it in the water to make it bitter. 
So they asked Jesus, “Do you hear what they are saying?” :   “Indeed I do,” answered Jesus. “Haven't you ever read this scripture? ‘You have trained children and babies to offer perfect praise.’ ” 
They arrived in Ephesus, where Paul left Priscilla and Aquila. He went into the synagogue and held discussions with the Jews. 
Nevertheless, be understanding with those who are poor. Don't keep them waiting for your generosity. 
Solomon married 700 princesses and also had 300 concubines. They made him turn away from God 
The men of the tribes of Reuben and Gad and of half the tribe of Manasseh, ready for battle, crossed ahead of the rest of the people, as Moses had told them to do. 
Then assemble the whole community of Israel and make the Levites stand in front of the Tent of my presence. 
Be grateful for every year you live. No matter how long you live, remember that you will be dead much longer. There is nothing at all to look forward to. 
When I destroy you, I will cover the sky and blot out the stars. The sun will hide behind the clouds, and the moon will give no light. 
(We all know that people can be so fascinated by evil that they cannot recognize what is good even when they are looking right at it. Innocent people can be so corrupted with desire that they can think of nothing but what they want.) 
One day when Job's children were having a feast at the home of their eldest brother, 
No indeed! And I tell you that if you do not turn from your sins, you will all die as they did.” 
“The eastern boundary runs south from a point between the territory of Damascus and that of Hauran, with the River Jordan forming the boundary between the land of Israel on the west and Gilead on the east, as far as Tamar on the Dead Sea. 
Then the LORD showed concern for his land; : he had mercy on his people. 
Jeiel founded the city of Gibeon and settled there. His wife was named Maacah, 
When Elizabeth heard Mary's greeting, the baby moved within her. Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit 
Early in the day I was talking with the people. That evening my wife died, and the next day I did as I had been told. 
Future generations will serve him; : they will speak of the Lord to the coming generation. 
God throws me into a pit of filth, : and even my clothes are ashamed of me. 
You knew that even though they let your people go and made them leave quickly, they would change their minds and pursue them. 
Yet the LORD heard them when they cried out, : and he took notice of their distress. 
and no one ever said anything bad about Judith. She was a very religious woman. 
I know that you are willing to help, and I have boasted of you to the people in Macedonia. “The brothers and sisters in Achaia,” I said, “have been ready to help since last year.” Your eagerness has stirred up most of them. 
So Joshua got ready to go to Ai with all his soldiers. He picked out 30,000 of his best troops and sent them out at night 
“How much longer are these wicked people going to complain against me? I have heard enough of these complaints! 
Every day the Levites would take the box to the royal official who was in charge of it. Whenever it was full, the royal secretary and the High Priest's representative would take the money out and return the box to its place. And so they collected a large sum of money. 
(It was after the death of Amaziah that Uzziah recaptured Elath and rebuilt the city.) 
All day long I praise you : and proclaim your glory. 
You must, of course, continue faithful on a firm and sure foundation, and must not allow yourselves to be shaken from the hope you gained when you heard the gospel. It is of this gospel that I, Paul, became a servant — this gospel which has been preached to everybody in the world. 
I have already undressed; : why should I get dressed again? : I have washed my feet; : why should I get them dirty again? 
Then the LORD spoke to Joshua son of Nun and said to him, “Be confident and determined. You will lead the people of Israel into the land that I promised them, and I will be with you.” 
Condemn and punish them, O God; : may their own plots cause their ruin. : Drive them out of your presence : because of their many sins : and their rebellion against you. 
David was successful in all the missions on which Saul sent him, and so Saul made him an officer in his army. This pleased all of Saul's officers and men. 
They begged him to let those who were ill at least touch the edge of his cloak; and all who touched it were made well.
“Be on your guard, then, because you do not know what day your Lord will come.  
We will not intermarry with the foreigners living in our land. 
The man who goes in through the gate is the shepherd of the sheep.  
Jerusalem, I can never forget you! : I have written your name on the palms of my hands. 
This is what the LORD said about Damascus: “The people in the cities of Hamath and Arpad are worried and troubled because they have heard bad news. Anxiety rolls over them like a sea, and they cannot rest. 
May the peoples praise you, O God; : may all the peoples praise you! 
You are the ones who received God's law, that was handed down by angels — yet you have not obeyed it!” 
Eber had two sons; one was named Peleg, because during his time the people of the world were divided, and the other was named Joktan. 
Do not have intercourse with your sister or your stepsister, whether or not she was brought up in the same house with you. 
I am worried about you! Can it be that all my work for you has been for nothing? 
The Philistines came and made camp in Judah, and attacked the town of Lehi. 
If the guilty person is sentenced to be beaten, the judge is to make him lie face downwards and have him whipped. The number of lashes will depend on the crime he has committed. 
Jesus answered him, “I am the way, the truth, and the life; no one goes to the Father except by me.  
The people of Israel felt sorry for their brothers the Benjaminites and said, “Today Israel has lost one of its tribes. 
But the Spirit produces love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 
Moses replied, “I will be glad to pray for you. Just set the time when I am to pray for you, your officers, and your people. Then you will be rid of the frogs, and there will be none left except in the Nile.” 
Because you ruined your country and killed your own people, you will not be buried like other kings. None of your evil family will survive. 
In the territory of Benjamin they were assigned the following towns with their pasture lands: Geba, Alemeth, and Anathoth. This made a total of thirteen towns for all their families to live in. 
He seizes the lightning with his hands : and commands it to hit the mark. 
Now, LORD God of Israel, keep the other promise you made to my father when you told him that there would always be one of his descendants ruling as king of Israel, provided that they carefully obeyed your Law just as he did. 
Those who hate me would bow in fear before me; : their punishment would last for ever. 
Tell Jerusalem what the Sovereign LORD is saying to her: : “You were born in the land of Canaan. Your father was an Amorite, and your mother was a Hittite.  
Each of them brought Solomon gifts — articles of silver and gold, robes, weapons, spices, horses, and mules. This continued year after year. 
They did this, then, and sent the money to the church elders by Barnabas and Saul.
A curse be on their anger, because it is so fierce, : And on their fury, because it is so cruel. : I will scatter them throughout the land of Israel. : I will disperse them among its people. 
The eldest son of Caleb, Jerahmeel's brother, was named Mesha. Mesha was the father of Ziph, who was the father of Mareshah, who was the father of Hebron.  
Jesus performed this first miracle in Cana in Galilee; there he revealed his glory, and his disciples believed in him. 
If you churn milk, you get butter. If you hit someone's nose, it bleeds. If you stir up anger, you get into trouble.
There will be a highway out of Assyria for those of his people Israel who have survived there, just as there was for their ancestors when they left Egypt.
Aristarchus, who is in prison with me, sends you greetings, and so does Mark, the cousin of Barnabas. (You have already received instructions to welcome Mark if he comes your way.) 
He went out again to the market place at nine o'clock and saw some men standing there doing nothing,  
The Lord sees to the government of the world and brings the right person to power at the right time. 
“And I tell you more: whenever two of you on earth agree about anything you pray for, it will be done for you by my Father in heaven.  
They rose up, dragged Jesus out of the town, and took him to the top of the hill on which their town was built. They meant to throw him over the cliff, 
You have eyes — can't you see? You have ears — can't you hear? Don't you remember  
Go and attack the Amalekites and completely destroy everything they have. Don't leave a thing; kill all the men, women, children, and babies; the cattle, sheep, camels, and donkeys.” 
He forms all their thoughts : and knows everything they do. 
So we say that the Gentiles, who were not trying to put themselves right with God, were put right with him through faith; 
For the sake of the house of the LORD our God : I pray for your prosperity.
So they went and brought Rahab out, along with her father and mother, her brothers, and the rest of her family. They took them all, family and slaves, to safety near the Israelite camp. 
Then the LORD said to me, “The people of Judah and of Jerusalem are plotting against me. 
You will look for me, but you will not find me, because you cannot go where I will be.” 
When they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord took Philip away. The official did not see him again, but continued on his way, full of joy. 
They shouted back, “Crucify him!” 
Be sure to bring the fish's gall-bladder with you.” So they went on ahead, and Tobias' dog ran along with them. 
This made Nebuchadnezzar so furious that he vowed he would risk his entire kingdom to take revenge on all those people. He vowed that he would put to death the entire population of Cilicia, Damascus, Syria, Moab, Ammon, Judah, and Egypt — everyone from the Mediterranean Sea to the Persian Gulf. 
Tell the priests carrying the Covenant Box that when they reach the river, they must wade in and stand near the bank.” 
This is what the Sovereign LORD is saying: “I will send my four worst punishments on Jerusalem — war, famine, wild animals, and disease — to destroy people and animals alike. 
He blessed the seventh day and set it apart as a special day, because by that day he had completed his creation and stopped working. 
But all alike die and are buried; : they all are covered with worms. 
The tribe of Ephraim: the clans of Shuthelah, Becher, and Tahan. 
Then Hushai told the priests Zadok and Abiathar what advice he had given to Absalom and the Israelite leaders and what advice Ahithophel had given. 
He was angry with his own people : and let them be killed by their enemies. 
If you give these instructions to the believers, you will be a good servant of Christ Jesus, as you feed yourself spiritually on the words of faith and of the true teaching which you have followed. 
On the other hand, it is possible to sin by giving in to other people too much. Here are some things you should not be ashamed of
The time is coming when the LORD will make every plant and tree in the land grow large and beautiful. All the people of Israel who survive will take delight and pride in the crops that the land produces. 
Do those things that will show that you have turned from your sins. 
On that day the ritual is to be performed to purify them from all their sins, so that they will be ritually clean. 
When they got up the following morning, the sun was shining on the water, making it look as red as blood. 
Everything the LORD has made has its destiny; and the destiny of the wicked is destruction. 
Within two years I will bring back to this place all the temple treasures that King Nebuchadnezzar took to Babylonia. 
Remember that you promised to make everything go well for me and to give me more descendants than anyone could count, as many as the grains of sand along the seashore.” 
For a slave who has been called by the Lord is free for the Lord; in the same way a free person who has been called by Christ is his slave. 
Always look happy and cheerful. 
all the animals in the forest are mine : and the cattle on thousands of hills. 
So David said, “This is where the Temple of the LORD God will be. Here is the altar where the people of Israel are to offer burnt offerings.” 
The elder daughter had a son, whom she named Moab. He was the ancestor of the present-day Moabites. 
But thanks be to God! For in union with Christ we are always led by God as prisoners in Christ's victory procession. God uses us to make the knowledge about Christ spread everywhere like a sweet fragrance. 
Anyone who does not bow down and worship will immediately be thrown into a blazing furnace.” 
A labourer's appetite makes him work harder, because he wants to satisfy his hunger. 
Now take seven bulls and seven rams to Job and offer them as a sacrifice for yourselves. Job will pray for you, and I will answer his prayer and not disgrace you as you deserve. You did not speak the truth about me as he did.” 
I call to you; : save me, and I will keep your laws. 
Then I saw thrones, and those who sat on them were given the power to judge. I also saw the souls of those who had been executed because they had proclaimed the truth that Jesus revealed and the word of God. They had not worshipped the beast or its image, nor had they received the mark of the beast on their foreheads or their hands. They came to life and ruled as kings with Christ for a thousand years. 
And when the Chief Shepherd appears, you will receive the glorious crown which will never lose its brightness. 
We believe that Jesus died and rose again, and so we believe that God will take back with Jesus those who have died believing in him. 
I was forty years old when the LORD's servant Moses sent me from Kadesh Barnea to spy out this land. I brought an honest report back to him. 
I, the Sovereign LORD, am watching this sinful kingdom of Israel, and I will destroy it from the face of the earth. But I will not destroy all the descendants of Jacob. 
The skilled workers are to use blue, purple, and red wool, gold thread, and fine linen. 
But Abishai son of Zeruiah came to David's help, attacked the giant, and killed him. Then David's men made David promise that he would never again go out with them to battle. “You are the hope of Israel, and we don't want to lose you,” they said. 
The next day, before anyone knew about Gedaliah's murder, 
But he is not ashamed to pray to this lifeless thing about his marriage, his children, and his possessions. 
and produce wine to make them happy, : olive oil to make them cheerful, : and bread to give them strength. 
When one of you says, “I follow Paul”, and another, “I follow Apollos” — aren't you acting like worldly people? 
If you love purity of heart and graciousness of speech, the king will be your friend. 
The LORD God tolerates no rivals; : he punishes those who oppose him. : In his anger he pays them back. 
For everyone who asks will receive, and anyone who seeks will find, and the door will be opened to those who knock.  
Arrogance will bring your downfall, but if you are humble, you will be respected. 
The prophet then said to the king, “This is the word of the LORD: ‘Because you allowed the man to escape whom I had ordered to be killed, you will pay for it with your life, and your army will be destroyed for letting his army escape.’ ” 
What a lioness your mother was! : She reared her cubs among the fierce male lions. 
Remove my sin, and I will be clean; : wash me, and I will be whiter than snow. 
I know that your judgements are righteous, LORD, : and that you punished me because you are faithful. 
Every creature prefers its own kind, and people are no different. 
Get up, let us go. Look, here is the man who is betraying me!” 
Every woman who inherits property in an Israelite tribe must marry a man belonging to that tribe. In this way all Israelites will inherit the property of their ancestors, 
The officials put the scroll in the room of Elishama, the court secretary, and went to the king's court, where they reported everything to the king. 
(It is really too shameful even to talk about the things they do in secret.) 
The LORD says, “If a man divorces his wife, and she leaves him and becomes another man's wife, he cannot take her back again. This would completely defile the land. But, Israel, you have had many lovers, and now you want to return to me! 
The men who had been taking care of the pigs ran away and went into the town, where they told the whole story and what had happened to the men with the demons. 
The man who burnt the cow must also wash his clothes and pour water over himself, but he also remains unclean until evening. 
The Arabians and the rulers of the land of Kedar paid for your merchandise with lambs, sheep, and goats. 
My dear friends, do not be surprised at the painful test you are suffering, as though something unusual were happening to you. 
For all time to come, this burnt offering is to be offered in my presence at the entrance of the Tent of my presence. That is where I will meet my people and speak to you. 
Whom do you think you have been insulting and ridiculing? You have been disrespectful to me, the holy God of Israel. 
The shaft of the lampstand is to have four decorative flowers shaped like almond blossoms with buds and petals. 
Some tax collectors came to be baptized, and they asked him, “Teacher, what are we to do?” 
The wickedness of the people burns like a fire that destroys thorn bushes and thistles. It burns like a forest fire that sends up columns of smoke. 
The people of Israel said, “We will stay on the main road, and if we or our animals drink any of your water, we will pay for it — all we want is to pass through.” 
By means of the Holy Spirit you spoke through our ancestor David, your servant, when he said: : ‘Why were the Gentiles furious; : why did people make their useless plots? 
King Solomon also had gold furnishings made for the Temple: the altar and the tables for the bread offered to God; 
Someone who is on the roof of his house must not take the time to go down and get his belongings from the house.  
At his command the waters above the sky roar; : he brings clouds from the ends of the earth. : He makes lightning flash in the rain : and sends the wind from his storeroom. 
The man on whom this miracle of healing had been performed was over forty years old. 
Never get tired of praying, and never miss a chance to give to the poor. 
An honest answer is a sign of true friendship. 
But he rejected the descendants of Joseph; : he did not select the tribe of Ephraim. 
So he ended their days like a breath : and their lives with sudden disaster. 
Aaron went to the altar and killed the young bull which was for his own sin offering. 
I will make you like a solid bronze wall as far as they are concerned. They will fight against you, but they will not defeat you. I will be with you to protect you and keep you safe. 
As long as you live, everything you do brings nothing but worry and heartache. Even at night your mind can't rest. It is all useless. 
The LORD guides people in the way they should go : and protects those who please him. 
The Spirit of the LORD took control of Gideon, and he blew a trumpet to call the men of the clan of Abiezer to follow him. 
Amos answered, “I am not the kind of prophet who prophesies for pay. I am a herdsman, and I take care of fig trees. 
The elder son was named Joel and the younger one Abijah; they were judges in Beersheba. 
The LORD said to Jehu, “You have done to Ahab's descendants everything I wanted you to do. So I promise you that your descendants, down to the fourth generation, will be kings of Israel.” 
“Look at him!” they said to each other. “Listen to his challenge! King Saul has promised to give a big reward to the man who kills him; the king will also give him his daughter to marry and will not require his father's family to pay taxes.” 
Or would you give him a snake when he asks for a fish?  
when Elisha's servant Gehazi said to himself, “My master has let Naaman get away without paying a thing! He should have accepted what that Syrian offered him. By the living LORD, I will run after him and get something from him.” 
I chose some of your sons to be prophets, and some of your young men to be Nazirites. Isn't this true, people of Israel? I, the LORD, have spoken. 
The richer you are, the more mouths you must feed. All you gain is the knowledge that you are rich. 
“Be careful, then, how you listen; because those who have something will be given more, but those who have nothing will have taken away from them even the little they think they have.” 
Use the meat of the finest sheep; : pile the wood under the pot. : Let the water boil; : boil the bones and the meat.” 
You have warned those who show you reverence, : so that they might escape destruction. 
We did not accept anyone's support without paying for it. Instead, we worked and toiled; we kept working day and night so as not to be an expense to any of you. 
They are like trees planted in the house of the LORD, : that flourish in the Temple of our God, 
Hang the extra half-piece over the back of the Tent. 
He married them even though the LORD had commanded the Israelites not to intermarry with these people, because they would cause the Israelites to give their loyalty to other gods. 
But 600 men were able to escape to the open country to the Rock of Rimmon, and they stayed there four months. 
Whoever attacks you : does it without my consent; : whoever fights against you will fall. 
How happy that servant is if his master finds him doing this when he comes home!  
Then the LORD told me to send a message to the kings of Edom, Moab, Ammon, Tyre, and Sidon through their ambassadors who had come to Jerusalem to see King Zedekiah. 
No one will say, ‘Look, here it is!’ or, ‘There it is!’; because the Kingdom of God is within you.” 
As long as she lives, she does him good and never harm. 
Not even the dark corners where they lay could protect them from fear. They were surrounded by horrible noises; grim ghosts with gloomy faces appeared before their eyes. 
You have many workmen. There are men to work in the stone quarries, and there are masons and carpenters, as well as a large number of craftsmen of every sort who can work 
Many peoples and powerful nations will come to Jerusalem to worship the LORD Almighty, and to pray for his blessing. 
They also sent Hashabiah and Jeshaiah of the clan of Merari, with twenty of their relatives. 
Actually I would prefer that all of you were as I am; but each one has a special gift from God, one person this gift, another one that gift. 
And so the total area in the centre of the section which was set apart will be a square measuring 12.5 kilometres on each side, and it will include the area occupied by the city. 
Do not drink water only, but take a little wine to help your digestion, since you are ill so often. 
a trap catches their heels and holds them. 
Hate stirs up trouble, but love overlooks all offences. 
The intentions of ungodly people will be closely examined; their words will be reported to the Lord, and then they will get the punishment that their wickedness deserves. 
as I would pray for a friend or a brother. : I went about bent over in mourning, : as one who mourns for his mother. 
Then their eyes were opened and they recognized him, but he disappeared from their sight. 
Many more believed because of his message, 
“Mortal man,” he said, “why do the people of Israel repeat this proverb: ‘Time goes by, and predictions come to nothing’? 
There will be no king to rule the country, and the leaders will all be gone.  
When Jehu was told that the heads of Ahab's descendants had been brought, he ordered them to be piled up in two heaps at the city gate and to be left there until the following morning. 
Even though Israel flourishes like weeds, I will send a hot east wind from the desert, and it will dry up their springs and wells. It will take away everything of value. 
Jesus again placed his hands on the man's eyes. This time the man looked intently, his eyesight returned, and he saw everything clearly. 
But his wife answered, “If the LORD had wanted to kill us, he would not have accepted our offerings; he would not have shown us all this or told us such things now.” 
The LORD said to me, 
She looks at land and buys it, and with money she has earned she plants a vineyard. 
Then the LORD said to Moses, “Raise your hand over the land of Egypt to bring the locusts. They will come and eat everything that grows, everything that has survived the hail.” 
Then I saw an angel coming down from heaven, holding in his hand the key of the abyss and a heavy chain. 
First in Damascus and in Jerusalem and then in all Judea and among the Gentiles, I preached that they must repent of their sins and turn to God and do the things that would show they had repented. 
So he took me to the north gate of the Temple and showed me women weeping over the death of the god Tammuz. 
But an angel of the LORD commanded Elijah, the prophet from Tishbe, to go and meet the messengers of King Ahaziah and ask them, “Why are you going to consult Baalzebub, the god of Ekron? Is it because you think there is no god in Israel? 
Then the two of them went indoors, and the young prophet poured the olive oil on Jehu's head and said to him, “The LORD, the God of Israel, proclaims: ‘I anoint you king of my people Israel. 
The LORD said, “Do not make idols or set up statues, stone pillars, or carved stones to worship. I am the LORD your God. 
Let those who wept as they sowed their seed, : gather the harvest with joy! 
He drove his enemies back : in lasting and shameful defeat. 
The LORD said, “Obey my commands; I am the LORD. 
A time is coming when all of you will throw away the sinful idols you made out of silver and gold. 
Ungodly people have brought death on themselves by the things they have said and done. They yearn for death as if it were a lover. They have gone into partnership with death, and it is just what they deserve.
“When foreigners who live in a distant land hear how great and powerful you are and how you are always ready to act, and then they come to pray at this Temple, 
When he arrived at the house, he would not let anyone go in with him except Peter, John, and James, and the child's father and mother. 
and spent all their time in the Temple giving thanks to God.
Yet you made them inferior only to yourself; : you crowned them with glory and honour. 
So the order was issued for all of them to be killed, including Daniel and his friends. 
and Solomon provided Hiram with 2,000 tonnes of wheat and 400,000 litres of pure olive oil every year to feed his men. 
All the people of Israel from Dan in the north to Beersheba in the south, as well as from the land of Gilead in the east, answered the call. They gathered in one body in the LORD's presence at Mizpah. 
so he sent for his fortune tellers, magicians, sorcerers, and wizards to come and explain the dream to him. When they came and stood before the king, 
Be careful not to turn to evil; : your suffering was sent to keep you from it. 
How we thank God for making Titus as eager as we are to help you! 
Why did you say that she was your sister, and let me take her as my wife? Here is your wife; take her and get out!” 
Other Levites were responsible for the utensils used in worship. They checked them out and checked them back in every time they were used. 
“That war will also kill the soldiers hired from Ethiopia, Lydia, Libya, Arabia, Kub, and even from among my own people.” 
If you have love for one another, then everyone will know that you are my disciples.” 
I have brought drought on the land — on its hills, cornfields, vineyards, and olive orchards — on every crop the ground produces, on people and animals, on everything you try to grow.” 
He thought, “If Esau comes and attacks the first group, the other may be able to escape.” 
So now, listen to what the LORD Almighty, Israel's powerful God, is saying: “I will take revenge on you, my enemies, and you will cause me no more trouble. 
The altar suddenly fell apart and the ashes spilt to the ground, as the prophet had predicted in the name of the LORD. 
all of which Joseph collected and stored in the cities. In each city he stored the food from the fields around it. 
Jehu arrived in Jezreel. Jezebel, having heard what had happened, put on eyeshadow, arranged her hair, and stood looking down at the street from a window in the palace. 
for the Lord has given fathers authority over their children and given children the obligation to obey their mothers. 
But while he sleeps, poverty will attack him like an armed robber. 
Abraham was now very old, and the LORD had blessed him in everything he did. 
The LORD said to Moses, 
I write down countless teachings for the people, but they reject them as strange and foreign. 
for God's justice does not die. 
and so do my fellow-workers Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke. 
he captured a young man from Sukkoth and questioned him. The young man wrote down for Gideon the names of the 77 leading men of Sukkoth. 
At once Saul fell down and lay stretched out on the ground, terrified by what Samuel had said. He was weak, because he had not eaten anything all day and all night. 
My anger will flame up like fire : and burn everything on earth. : It will reach to the world below : and consume the roots of the mountains. 
So be sure that you do not go about complaining — it does no good — and don't engage in bitter talk. The most secret things you say will have their consequences, and lying will destroy your soul. 
“You felt sure of yourself in your evil; : you thought that no one could see you. : Your wisdom and knowledge led you astray, : and you said to yourself, ‘I am God — : there is no one else like me.’ 
Peter was still standing there keeping himself warm. So the others said to him, “Aren't you also one of the disciples of that man?” : But Peter denied it. “No, I am not,” he said. 
I don't do the good I want to do; instead, I do the evil that I do not want to do. 
The Ammonites marched out and took up their position at the entrance to Rabbah, their capital city, while the others, both the Syrians and the men from Tob and Maacah, took up their position in the open countryside. 
It is the smallest of all seeds, but when it grows up, it is the biggest of all plants. It becomes a tree, so that birds come and make their nests in its branches.” 
The wicked are swept away by floods, : and the land they own is under God's curse; : they no longer go to work in their vineyards. 
Do not bring any of these idols into your homes, or the same curse will be on you that is on them. You must hate and despise these idols, because they are under the LORD's curse.
When the time of mourning was over, Joseph said to the king's officials, “Please take this message to the king
So we preach Christ to everyone. With all possible wisdom we warn and teach them in order to bring each one into God's presence as a mature individual in union with Christ. 
Nebuzaradan took them to the king of Babylonia, who was in the city of Riblah 
David lived in Philistia for sixteen months. 
If you get more stubborn every time you are corrected, one day you will be crushed and never recover. 
Those who make idols will all be ashamed; : all of them will be disgraced. 
So all the leaders of Israel came to King David at Hebron. He made a sacred alliance with them, they anointed him, and he became king of Israel, just as the LORD had promised through Samuel. 
“This may seem impossible to those of the nation who are now left, but it's not impossible for me. 
The day after the ordination rites were completed, Moses called Aaron and his sons and the leaders of Israel. 
These stones will remind the people of what the LORD has done. In the future, when your children ask what these stones mean to you, 
and in a vision he has seen a man named Ananias come in and place his hands on him so that he might see again.” 
But your son will live like a wild donkey; he will be against everyone, and everyone will be against him. He will live apart from all his relatives.” 
He sprinkles frost over the ground like salt, : and it freezes into thorny flowers of ice. 
They have come to warn the nations and to tell Jerusalem that enemies are coming from a country far away. These enemies will shout against the cities of Judah 
These clans numbered 32,500 men. : These are the clans descended from Joseph. 
Peter invited the men in and persuaded them to spend the night there. : The next day he got ready and went with them; and some of the believers from Joppa went along with him. 
“Bring his sons and put shirts on them; 
“Then the LORD said to me, ‘Cut two stone tablets like the first ones and make a wooden box to put them in. Come up to me on the mountain, 
Greetings also to Andronicus and Junia, fellow-Jews who were in prison with me; they are well known among the apostles, and they became Christians before I did. 
You will find happiness and genuine joy; your name will be remembered for ever. 
When he saw that this pleased the Jews, he went on to arrest Peter. (This happened during the time of the Festival of Unleavened Bread.) 
On the first day of the Festival of Unleavened Bread, the day the lambs for the Passover meal were killed, Jesus' disciples asked him, “Where do you want us to go and get the Passover meal ready for you?” 
Then I heard the Lord say, “Whom shall I send? Who will be our messenger?” : I answered, “I will go! Send me!” 
God poured out the Holy Spirit abundantly on us through Jesus Christ our Saviour, 
They said to Moses, “If you speak to us, we will listen; but we are afraid that if God speaks to us, we will die.” 
The apostles in Jerusalem heard that the people of Samaria had received the word of God, so they sent Peter and John to them. 
Never get a lazy person to do something for you; he will be as irritating as vinegar on your teeth or smoke in your eyes. 
The land will be the most desolate in the world, and its cities will be left totally in ruins. 
If the one guilty of manslaughter leaves the city of refuge to which he has escaped 
supported by twenty bronze posts in twenty bronze bases, with hooks and rods made of silver. 
and fortified the city of Palmyra in the desert. He rebuilt all the cities in Hamath that were centres for storing supplies. 
She knows the value of everything she makes, and works late into the night. 
Come and save me, LORD; : in your mercy rescue me from death. 
Some people will be your friends only when it is convenient for them, but they won't stand by you in trouble. 
No! You think only of the evil you can do, : and commit crimes of violence in the land. 
Those who run fast cannot get away; : the soldiers cannot escape. : In the north, by the Euphrates, : they stumble and fall. 
But no weapon will be able to hurt you; : you will have an answer for all who accuse you. : I will defend my servants : and give them victory.” : The LORD has spoken.
Then the end will come; Christ will overcome all spiritual rulers, authorities, and powers, and will hand over the Kingdom to God the Father. 
O Lord, you know what I long for; : you hear all my groans. 
He will destroy them because of those words; : all who see them will shake their heads. 
After Jephthah, Ibzan from Bethlehem led Israel. 
Then many people will rebel against the king of Egypt. And some of the violent from your nation, Daniel, will rebel because of a vision they have seen, but they will be defeated. 
“Go and gather all the Jews in Susa together; hold a fast and pray for me. Don't eat or drink anything for three days and nights. My young women and I will be doing the same. After that, I will go to the king, even though it is against the law. If I must die for doing it, I will die.” 
How much longer will criminals be proud : and boast about their crimes? 
O God, declare me innocent, : and defend my cause against the ungodly; : deliver me from lying and evil people! 
The priest will take part of it as a token that it has all been offered to the LORD, and he will burn it on the altar. The smell of this food offering is pleasing to the LORD. 
Jeroboam ruled as king for 22 years. He died and was buried, and his son Nadab succeeded him as king. 
Tobias then went out to look for someone who knew the way to Media and would travel with him. Almost as soon as he left the house, he found himself face to face with Raphael. Tobias did not know that Raphael was an angel of God, 
Yet no one listened or paid any attention. Instead, you became more stubborn and rebellious than your ancestors. 
You will succeed in all you do, : and light will shine on your path. 
and had assured him that he would not die before he had seen the Lord's promised Messiah. 
Every day I will thank you; : I will praise you for ever and ever. 
He will level the high mountains and hills, 
So then, you also must always be ready, because the Son of Man will come at an hour when you are not expecting him. 
Put these clothes on your brother Aaron and his sons. Then ordain them and dedicate them by anointing them with olive oil, so that they may serve me as priests. 
Break camp and move on. Go to the hill country of the Amorites and to all the surrounding regions — to the Jordan Valley, to the hill country and the lowlands, to the southern region, and to the Mediterranean coast. Go to the land of Canaan and on beyond the Lebanon Mountains as far as the great River Euphrates. 
Abram had intercourse with Hagar, and she became pregnant. When she found out that she was pregnant, she became proud and despised Sarai. 
You have made them a kingdom of priests to serve our God, : and they shall rule on earth.” 
After he had said this, he called out in a loud voice, “Lazarus, come out!”  
He ordered the first servant, “When my brother Esau meets you and asks, ‘Who is your master? Where are you going? Who owns these animals in front of you?’ 
I told them to throw away the disgusting idols they loved and not to make themselves unclean with the false gods of Egypt, because I am the LORD their God. 
Ask the LORD for rain in the spring of the year. It is the LORD who sends rain clouds and showers, making the fields green for everyone. 
The wisdom I proclaim is God's hidden wisdom, which he had already chosen for our glory even before the world was made. 
After 52 days of work the entire wall was finished on the 25th day of the month of Elul. 
After reaching an agreement about it, they used the money to buy Potter's Field, as a cemetery for foreigners. 
If you correct conceited people, you will only be insulted. If you reprimand evil people, you will only get hurt. 
He rescued me from my powerful enemies : and from all those who hate me — : they were too strong for me. 
Her husband got up that morning, and when he opened the door to go on his way, he found his concubine lying in front of the house with her hands reaching for the door. 
Don't be too quick to go to court about something you have seen. If another witness later proves you wrong, what will you do then? 
and 1000 other utensils.
I call to God, the Most High, : to God, who supplies my every need. 
Simon said to Peter and John, “Please pray to the Lord for me, so that none of these things you spoke of will happen to me.” 
You are going to a rich and fertile land. But I will not go with you myself, because you are a stubborn people, and I might destroy you on the way.” 
What a fine help you are to me — : poor, weak man that I am! 
“Any man who divorces his wife and marries another woman commits adultery; and the man who marries a divorced woman commits adultery. 
“They are to make the ephod of blue, purple, and red wool, gold thread, and fine linen, decorated with embroidery. 
Jesus answered, “It will be one of you twelve, one who dips his bread in the dish with me.  
I tell you all that none of those who were invited will taste my dinner!’ ” 
Don't hesitate to correct someone who is acting foolishly or an old man who goes about with prostitutes. All this is worthwhile advice, and if you follow it, everyone will approve of your behaviour. 
Moses went and told the people all the LORD's commands and all the ordinances, and all the people answered together, “We will do everything that the LORD has said.” 
4,000 to do guard duty, and 4,000 to praise the LORD, using the musical instruments provided by the king for this purpose. 
Harim — 320 
They are stubborn and do not respect me, so I am sending you to tell them what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying to them. 
From there they moved again and camped on the north side of the River Arnon, in the wilderness which extends into Amorite territory. (The Arnon was the border between the Moabites and the Amorites.) 
You did all this so that the idolators, when they were hungry, would be unable to eat because of the disgusting creatures sent to them. Your people, however, suffered hunger for only a short while, and then they ate the finest food. 
because he never came to know the God who shaped him, who breathed into him an active soul and a living spirit. 
These clans numbered 45,600 men. 
In the territory of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead, Mahanaim, 
to tell Aaron and his sons to use the following words in blessing the people of Israel
I will take you from every nation and country and bring you back to your own land. 
The day I call to you, : my enemies will be turned back. : I know this: God is on my side — 
is like the sun shining on a cloudless dawn, : the sun that makes the grass sparkle after rain.” 
You must use an iron tool or a spear; : they will be burnt completely. 
But you teach that if a person has something he could use to help his father or mother, but says, ‘This is Corban’ (which means, it belongs to God),  
Jesus left that place, and as he walked along, two blind men started following him. “Take pity on us, Son of David!” they shouted. 
At her mother's suggestion she asked him, “Give me here and now the head of John the Baptist on a dish!” 
More people have died as a result of loose talk than were ever killed by swords. 
Come, darling, let's go out to the countryside : and spend the night in the villages. 
As the scripture says, : “For your sake we are in danger of death at all times; : we are treated like sheep that are going to be slaughtered.” 
The two columns were identical: each one was eight metres high, with a bronze capital on top, 1.3 metres high. All round each capital was a bronze grating decorated with pomegranates made of bronze. 
The message about Christ has become so firmly established in you 
“Do not plant any crop in the same field as your grapevines; if you do, you are forbidden to use either the grapes or the produce of the other crop. 
Standing close to Jesus' cross were his mother, his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene. 
When he arrived and saw how God had blessed the people, he was glad and urged them all to be faithful and true to the Lord with all their hearts. 
He is the God of the living, not of the dead, for to him all are alive.” 
Now, God made his promises to Abraham and to his descendant. The scripture does not use the plural “descendants”, meaning many people, but the singular “descendant”, meaning one person only, namely, Christ. 
The Israelites obeyed and expelled them all from the camp. 
If I pay attention to all your commands, : then I will not be put to shame. 
“Give the king of Egypt a new name — : ‘Noisy Braggart who Missed his Chance’. 
So then, my brothers and sisters, we are not the children of a slave woman but of a free woman.
When, however, the Spirit comes, who reveals the truth about God, he will lead you into all the truth. He will not speak on his own authority, but he will speak of what he hears, and will tell you of things to come.  
The man replied, “Ever since I was young, I have obeyed all these commandments.” 
He brought to Jerusalem the priests who were in the cities of Judah, and throughout the whole country he desecrated the altars where they had offered sacrifices. He also tore down the altars dedicated to the goat-demons near the gate built by Joshua, the city governor, which was to the left of the main gate as one enters the city. 
The fields are bare; : the ground mourns : because the corn is destroyed, : the grapes are dried up, : and the olive trees are withered. 
Jonathan got up from the table in a rage and ate nothing that day — the second day of the New Moon Festival. He was deeply distressed about David, because Saul had insulted him. 
for he has remembered me, his lowly servant! : From now on all people will call me happy, 
But Jesus said, “Enough of this!” He touched the man's ear and healed him. 
Saul got up from the ground and opened his eyes, but could not see a thing. So they took him by the hand and led him into Damascus. 
The Lord is merciful and will not reject us for ever. 
the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Salmon, the son of Nahshon, 
Fling wide the gates, : open the ancient doors, : and the great king will come in. 
But Stephen, full of the Holy Spirit, looked up to heaven and saw God's glory and Jesus standing at the right-hand side of God. 
There they tried to give him wine mixed with a drug called myrrh, but Jesus would not drink it. 
Nebuchadnezzar took Jehoiachin to Babylon as a prisoner, together with Jehoiachin's mother, his wives, his officials, and the leading men of Judah. 
Look for a moment at ancient wisdom; : consider the truths our ancestors learnt. 
From where he rules, he looks down : on all who live on earth. 
For the sadness that is used by God brings a change of heart that leads to salvation — and there is no regret in that! But sadness that is merely human causes death. 
Jehoshaphat died and was buried in the royal tombs in David's City, and his son Jehoram succeeded him as king. 
Then take a few of them out again, throw them in the fire, and let them burn up. From them fire will spread to the whole nation of Israel.” 
Hear this, all you nations; : listen to this, all who live on earth! : The Sovereign LORD will testify against you. : Listen! He speaks from his heavenly temple. 
they will tell it to the people who live in this land. These people have already heard that you, LORD, are with us, that you are plainly seen when your cloud stops over us, and that you go before us in a pillar of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night. 
“Punish the Midianites for what they did to the people of Israel. After you have done that, you will die.” 
Then the father went to the other son and said the same thing. ‘Yes, sir,’ he answered, but he did not go.  
Then they were able to destroy the cities in the area around Gerar, because the people there were terrified of the LORD. The army plundered all those cities and captured large amounts of loot. 
As he did so, the four living creatures and the 24 elders fell down before the Lamb. Each had a harp and gold bowls filled with incense, which are the prayers of God's people. 
(When Jerusalem was captured, all the high officials of the king of Babylonia came and took their places at the Middle Gate, including Nergal Sarezer, Samgar Nebo, Sarsechim, and another Nergal Sarezer.) 
While he was talking, a shining cloud came over them, and a voice from the cloud said, “This is my own dear Son, with whom I am pleased — listen to him!” 
So the LORD gave to Israel all the land that he had solemnly promised their ancestors he would give them. When they had taken possession of it, they settled down there. 
“When you walk along a path in someone else's vineyard, you may eat all the grapes you want, but you must not carry any away in a container. 
When they were a short distance away, Judith called out to the guards at the gate, “Open the gate! Open the gate! Our God is still with us. Today he has once again shown his strength in Israel and used his power against our enemies.” 
Do you know how long they carry their young? : Do you know the time for their birth? 
“You will indeed drink from my cup,” Jesus told them, “but I do not have the right to choose who will sit at my right and my left. These places belong to those for whom my Father has prepared them.” 
What gives life is God's Spirit; human power is of no use at all. The words I have spoken to you bring God's life-giving Spirit.  
Everything else that Omri did and all his accomplishments are recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel. 
You fool! When you sow a seed in the ground, it does not sprout to life unless it dies. 
When that day comes, the deaf will be able to hear a book being read aloud, and the blind, who have been living in darkness, will open their eyes and see. 
There are people who think they are pure when they are as filthy as they can be. 
The worship of idols, whose names should never be spoken, is the beginning and the end, the cause and the result of every evil. 
So Joseph got up, took the child and his mother, and went back to Israel. 
The soldiers with him went towards the main entrance to the city and set up camp on the north side, with a valley between themselves and Ai. 
But what if my untruth serves God's glory by making his truth stand out more clearly? Why should I still be condemned as a sinner? 
When he heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went to him and asked him to go to Capernaum and heal his son, who was about to die. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “the people who live in Jerusalem are talking about you and your fellow-Israelites who are in exile. They say, ‘The exiles are too far away to worship the LORD. He has given us possession of the land.’ 
Turn your eyes away from me; : they are holding me captive. : Your hair dances, like a flock of goats : bounding down the hills of Gilead. 
But out of that scrap wood he may take one piece that isn't good for anything — maybe it's crooked and full of knots — and carefully carve it in his leisure time, using spare moments to shape it into the crude image of a person, 
When I gave advice, people were silent : and listened carefully to what I said; 
Mattaniah, the son of Mica and grandson of Zabdi, a descendant of Asaph. He led the temple choir in singing the prayer of thanksgiving. : Bakbukiah, who was Mattaniah's assistant. : Abda, the son of Shammua and grandson of Galal, a descendant of Jeduthun. 
The fifth assignment made was for the families of the tribe of Asher. 
This is what God said to him: ‘Your descendants will live in a foreign country, where they will be slaves and will be badly treated for 400 years. 
So King Ahab called in a court official and told him to go and fetch Micaiah at once. 
and put all the gifts and tithes in them for safe-keeping. They placed a Levite named Conaniah in charge and made his brother Shimei his assistant. 
Then I asked the angel, “What do these things stand for, sir?” 
You never thought to honour me, even though I send the autumn rains and the spring rains and give you the harvest season each year. 
Then Shem and Japheth took a robe and held it behind them on their shoulders. They walked backwards into the tent and covered their father, keeping their faces turned away so as not to see him naked. 
Jesus was filled with pity, and stretched out his hand and touched him. “I do want to,” he answered. “Be clean!”  
Do all your work in love. 
Jehoshaphat was frightened and prayed to the LORD for guidance. Then he gave orders for a fast to be observed throughout the country. 
If anyone gives one of his children to Molech and makes my sacred Tent unclean and disgraces my holy name, I will turn against him and will no longer consider him one of my people. 
Instead, he will say, ‘I am not a prophet. I am a farmer — I have farmed the land all my life.’ 
Then the cloud covered the Tent and the dazzling light of the LORD's presence filled it. 
David himself called him ‘Lord’; so how can the Messiah be David's descendant?” : A large crowd was listening to Jesus gladly. 
Ehud got away while they were waiting. He went past the carved stones and escaped to Seirah. 
The people asked me, “Why are you acting like this?” 
“It's a good idea to keep a king's secret, but what God does should be told everywhere, so that he may be praised and honoured. : “If you do good, no harm will come to you. 
I would take you to my mother's house, : where you could teach me love. : I would give you spiced wine, : my pomegranate wine to drink. 
Then he led me to the outer courtyard and showed me that in each of its four corners there was a smaller courtyard, twenty metres long and fifteen metres wide. 
The woman's name was Cozbi. Zur, her father, was chief of a group of Midianite clans. 
And when he comes, he will prove to the people of the world that they are wrong about sin and about what is right and about God's judgement.  
I did not believe what they told me until I came and saw for myself. I had not heard of even half your wisdom. You are even wiser than people say. 
listen to their prayers. Hear them in heaven, and give them victory. 
He is good to everyone : and has compassion on all he made. 
But do not treat them as an enemy; instead, warn them as a fellow-believer. 
Use 35 kilogrammes of pure gold to make the lampstand and all this equipment. 
Jesus said to them, “You are the ones who make yourselves look right in other people's sight, but God knows your hearts. For the things that are considered of great value by human beings are worth nothing in God's sight. 
So Judith got up and put on her prettiest clothes. Her slave woman went ahead of her and placed on the ground in front of Holofernes the lambskins that Bagoas had given Judith to sit on when she ate. 
“I am not guilty; I have done nothing wrong. : I am innocent and free from sin. 
and your host, who invited both of you, would have to come and say to you, ‘Let him have this place.’ Then you would be embarrassed and have to sit in the lowest place.  
Jesus answered them, “My Father is always working, and I too must work.” 
This troubled Abraham very much, because Ishmael was also his son. 
After they had eaten, Jesus said to Simon Peter, “Simon son of John, do you love me more than these others do?” : “Yes, Lord,” he answered, “you know that I love you.” : Jesus said to him, “Take care of my lambs.”  
But it is you, my companion, : my colleague and close friend. 
Now I am about to die; : there is no relief for my suffering. 
They are not to worry about leaving their possessions behind; the best in the whole land of Egypt will be theirs.” 
The people of Judah and the people of Israel will be reunited. They will choose for themselves a single leader, and once again they will grow and prosper in their land. Yes, the day of Jezreel will be a great day!
“My fellow-believers,” he said, “the scripture had to come true in which the Holy Spirit, speaking through David, made a prediction about Judas, who was the guide for those who arrested Jesus. 
He made the dishes of pure gold for the table: the plates, the cups, the jars, and the bowls to be used for the wine offering. 
“I will let foreigners rob them,” says the LORD, “and lawbreakers will take all their wealth and defile it. 
There is no other nation on earth like Israel, whom you rescued from slavery to make them your own people. The great and wonderful things you did for them have spread your fame throughout the world. You drove out other nations and their gods as your people advanced, the people whom you set free from Egypt to be your own. 
That is why people call the well between Kadesh and Bered “The Well of the Living One who Sees Me”. 
Wisdom is with you and knows your actions; she was present when you made the world. She knows what pleases you, what is right and in accordance with your commands. 
People will hide in caves in the rocky hills or dig holes in the ground to try to escape from the LORD's anger and to hide from his power and glory, when he comes to shake the earth. 
Shelemiah drew the east gate, and his son Zechariah, a man who always gave good advice, drew the north gate. 
When the plague had stopped, Aaron returned to Moses at the entrance of the Tent.
For when we are in union with Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor the lack of it makes any difference at all; what matters is faith that works through love. 
These are the solemn words which King Lemuel's mother said to him
“ ‘Listen, friend,’ the owner answered one of them, ‘I have not cheated you. After all, you agreed to do a day's work for one silver coin.  
Then I told the priests and the people that the LORD had said: “Do not listen to the prophets who say that the temple treasures will soon be brought back from Babylonia. They are lying to you. 
There the birds build their nests; : the storks nest in the fir trees. 
I stagger as I walk; stone walls block me wherever I turn. 
and throughout the land two-thirds of the people will die. 
Then the High Priest and all his companions, members of the local party of the Sadducees, became extremely jealous of the apostles; so they decided to take action. 
Look, Go and occupy it as he commanded. Do not hesitate or be afraid.    
“Your country was ruined and desolate — : but now it will be too small : for those who are coming to live there. : And those who left you in ruins : will be far removed from you. 
But some of them were stubborn and would not believe, and before the whole group they said evil things about the Way of the Lord. So Paul left them and took the believers with him, and every day he held discussions in the lecture hall of Tyrannus. 
These rooms were in three storeys, with thirty rooms on each floor. The Temple's outer wall on each floor was thinner than on the floor below, so that the rooms could rest on the wall without being anchored into it. 
“For those who declare publicly that they belong to me, I will do the same before my Father in heaven.  
But since we worship no other God but the Lord, we can hope that he will not reject us or any of our people. 
“Call to me, and I will answer you; I will tell you wonderful and marvellous things that you know nothing about. 
like roses in springtime, like lilies beside a stream, like the cedars of Lebanon in summer, 
When Jesus noticed this, he was angry and said to his disciples, “Let the children come to me, and do not stop them, because the Kingdom of God belongs to such as these.  
This is a message about Nineveh, the account of a vision seen by Nahum, who was from Elkosh. 
while we sent Timothy, our brother who works with us for God in preaching the Good News about Christ. We sent him to strengthen you and help your faith, 
And now the heathen are surprised when you do not join them in the same wild and reckless living, and so they insult you. 
When Gideon arrived, he heard a man telling a friend about a dream. He was saying, “I dreamt that a loaf of barley bread rolled into our camp and hit a tent. The tent collapsed and lay flat on the ground.” 
Then I took Abraham, your ancestor, from the land beyond the Euphrates and led him through the whole land of Canaan. I gave him many descendants. I gave him Isaac, 
But Jesus heard it and said to Jairus, “Don't be afraid; only believe, and she will be well.” 
In the second year of the reign of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz as king of Israel, Amaziah son of Joash became king of Judah 
: Jeshua son of Azaniah, : Binnui of the clan of Henadad, : Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Hodiah, : Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan, : Mica, Rehob, Hashabiah, : Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah, : Hodiah, Bani, and Beninu.
Forgive the sins and errors of my youth. : In your constant love and goodness, : remember me, LORD! 
the covering of rams' skin dyed red; the covering of fine leather; the curtain; 
One day while Moses was taking care of the sheep and goats of his father-in-law Jethro, the priest of Midian, he led the flock across the desert and came to Sinai, the holy mountain. 
and Shaphan took it to the king. He reported, “We have done everything that you commanded. 
Moses' father-in-law Jethro, the priest of Midian, heard about everything that God had done for Moses and the people of Israel when he led them out of Egypt. 
Clan of Harim: Maaseiah, Elijah, Shemaiah, Jehiel, and Uzziah 
Gomer had a second child — this time it was a daughter. The LORD said to Hosea, “Name her ‘Unloved’, because I will no longer show love to the people of Israel or forgive them. 
For the words you will speak will not be yours; they will come from the Spirit of your Father speaking through you. 
Bring the full amount of your tithes to the Temple, so that there will be plenty of food there. Put me to the test and you will see that I will open the windows of heaven and pour out on you in abundance all kinds of good things. 
Like King Jeroboam before him he sinned against the LORD and led Israel into sin; he never gave up his evil ways. 
I wish I had wings, like a dove. : I would fly away and find rest. 
The LORD sent an angel that killed the soldiers and officers of the Assyrian army. So the emperor went back to Assyria disgraced. One day when he was in the temple of his god, some of his sons killed him with their swords. 
The LORD spoke to me. 
I do this so that you will know the full truth about everything which you have been taught. 
I will set the walls of Damascus on fire and will burn down King Benhadad's palaces. I, the LORD Almighty, have spoken.” 
King Hiram sent Solomon a letter in reply. He wrote, “Because the LORD loves his people, he has made you their king. 
Some people think that a certain day is more important than other days, while others think that all days are the same. We should each firmly make up our own minds. 
the son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri, 
the son of Serug, the son of Reu, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Shelah, 
In the Lord's name, then, I warn you: do not continue to live like the heathen, whose thoughts are worthless 
There were statesmen whose policies governed the people, : rulers who issued decrees, : scholars who spoke wise words, : and those who used pointed proverbs, 
God brought you out of trouble, : and let you enjoy security; : your table was piled high with food. 
I know that after my death the people will become wicked and reject what I have taught them. And in time to come they will meet with disaster, because they will have made the LORD angry by doing what he has forbidden.” 
Perhaps my life's blood is to be poured out like an offering on the sacrifice that your faith offers to God. If that is so, I am glad and share my joy with you all. 
Then his sister asked her, “Shall I go and call a Hebrew woman to act as a wet nurse?” 
Sometimes your own intuition can tell you more than seven watchmen on a high tower. 
The king removed from his finger the ring engraved with the royal seal and put it on Joseph's finger. He put a fine linen robe on him, and placed a gold chain round his neck. 
Watch out for people who grin and wink at you; they have thought of something evil. 
Howl with grief, you people of Phoenicia! Try to escape to Spain! 
and Racal; to the clan of Jerahmeel, to the Kenites, 
But now I tell you: do not use any vow when you make a promise. Do not swear by heaven, for it is God's throne;  
To you alone, O LORD, to you alone, : and not to us, must glory be given : because of your constant love and faithfulness. 
Their bowmen are mighty soldiers who kill without mercy. 
The LORD makes me powerful and strong; : he has saved me. 
So he decided not to take it with him to Jerusalem; instead, he turned off the road and took it to the house of Obed Edom, a native of the city of Gath. 
Jacob was frightened and worried. He divided into two groups the people who were with him, and also his sheep, goats, cattle, and camels. 
No, we will take our animals with us; not one will be left behind. We ourselves must select the animals with which to worship the LORD our God. And until we get there, we will not know what animals to sacrifice to him.” 
The tribe of Levi consisted of the clans of Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
They will soon disappear like grass that dries up; : they will die like plants that wither. 
My eyes are worn out with weeping; my soul is in anguish. : I am exhausted with grief at the destruction of my people. : Children and babies are fainting in the streets of the city. 
Lord, hear us. Lord, forgive us. Lord, listen to us, and act! In order that everyone will know that you are God, do not delay! This city and these people are yours.” 
the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph, 
Before God, who gives life to all things, and before Christ Jesus, who firmly professed his faith before Pontius Pilate, I command you 
They called out to the mountains and to the rocks, “Fall on us and hide us from the eyes of the one who sits on the throne and from the anger of the Lamb! 
Haman was furious when he realized that Mordecai was not going to kneel and bow to him, 
David got homesick and said, “How I wish someone would bring me a drink of water from the well by the gate in Bethlehem!” 
Early the next morning Joshua brought Israel forward, tribe by tribe, and the tribe of Judah was picked out. 
Their answer was, “We would not have brought him to you if he had not committed a crime.” 
Jotham grew powerful because he faithfully obeyed the LORD his God. 
All the priests and the Levites had purified themselves and were ritually clean. The Levites killed the animals for the Passover sacrifices for all the people who had returned, for the priests, and for themselves. 
If you make a promise to the Lord, keep it as soon as you can. Don't wait until you are about to die to set things straight. 
and if you honour your mother, you are earning great wealth. 
Hushai added, “Quick, now! Send a message to David not to spend the night at the river crossings in the wilderness, but to cross the Jordan at once, so that he and his men won't all be caught and killed.” 
The Levite families of singers gathered from the area where they had settled round Jerusalem and from the towns round Netophah, 
When Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, he said about him, “Here is a real Israelite; there is nothing false in him!” 
So I went out into the valley, and there I saw the glory of the LORD, just as I had seen it beside the River Chebar. I fell face downwards on the ground, 
Be sure to notice where he lies down, and after he falls asleep, go and lift the covers and lie down at his feet. He will tell you what to do.” 
The Sovereign LORD has taught me what to say, : so that I can strengthen the weary. : Every morning he makes me eager : to hear what he is going to teach me. 
And don't let him persuade you to rely on the LORD. Don't think that the LORD will save you and that he will stop our Assyrian army from capturing your city. 
And if anyone does any work on that day, the LORD himself will put him to death. 
“So then, anyone who hears these words of mine and obeys them is like a wise man who built his house on rock.  
But Ahab replied, “When you speak to me in the name of the LORD, tell the truth! How many times do I have to tell you that?” 
What then? The people of Israel did not find what they were looking for. It was only the small group that God chose who found it; the rest grew deaf to God's call. 
The seven years of plenty that the land of Egypt had enjoyed came to an end, 
Remember your servants, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and do not pay any attention to the stubbornness, wickedness, and sin of this people. 
but any slave that you have bought may eat it if you circumcise him first. 
I love the LORD, because he hears me; : he listens to my prayers. 
I lift up my hands to you in prayer; : like dry ground my soul is thirsty for you. 
The Lord struck the Assyrian camp; his angel wiped them out. 
The whole group was pleased with the apostles' proposal, so they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and the Holy Spirit, and Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicolaus, a Gentile from Antioch who had earlier been converted to Judaism. 
Their ruler will come from their own nation, : their prince from their own people. : He will approach me when I invite him, : for who would dare come uninvited? : They will be my people, : and I will be their God. : I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
I will come quickly and save them; : the time of my victory is near. : I myself will rule over the nations. : Distant lands wait for me to come; : they wait with hope for me to save them. 
From the land that the people of Israel possessed, a total of 48 cities, with the pasture lands round them, was given to the Levites. 
Others were in charge of the other sacred equipment, and of the flour, wine, olive oil, incense, and spices. 
In the assembly of all your people, LORD, : I told the good news that you save us. : You know that I will never stop telling it. 
I reprimanded the officials for letting the Temple be neglected. And I brought the Levites and musicians back to the Temple and put them to work again. 
Now, take the money away from him and give it to the one who has 10,000 coins.  
Everyone there began to weep loudly and to pray to the Lord their God. 
So in the second month of the year after they came back to the site of the Temple in Jerusalem, they began work. Zerubbabel, Joshua, and the rest of their fellow-countrymen, the priests, and the Levites, in fact all the exiles who had come back to Jerusalem, joined in the work. All the Levites twenty years of age or older were put in charge of the work of rebuilding the Temple. 
They did God's mighty acts : and performed miracles in Egypt. 
We left by ship from Troas and sailed straight across to Samothrace, and the next day to Neapolis. 
He said to them, “Go throughout the whole world and preach the gospel to the whole human race.  
But when the tenants saw the son, they said to themselves, ‘This is the owner's son. Come on, let's kill him, and we will get his property!’  
“People of Israel, I did not demand sacrifices and offerings during those forty years that I led you through the desert. 
He is not worried or afraid; : he is certain to see his enemies defeated. 
Some of the branches of the cultivated olive tree have been broken off, and a branch of a wild olive tree has been joined to it. You Gentiles are like that wild olive tree, and now you share the strong spiritual life of the Jews. 
The Sovereign LORD said, “Because Moab has said that Judah is like all the other nations, 
Then, just as the LORD had said, Hanamel came to me there in the courtyard and asked me to buy the field. So I knew that the LORD had really spoken to me. 
I will make them serve their enemies in a land they know nothing about, because my anger is like fire, and it will burn for ever.” 
In three days the king will release you, pardon you, and restore you to your position. You will give him his cup as you did before when you were his wine steward. 
God is so wise and powerful; : no one can stand up against him. 
My life is disappearing like smoke; : my body is burning like fire. 
another third are to stand guard at the Sur Gate, and the other third are to stand guard at the gate behind the other guards.  
and saw the people of Israel camped tribe by tribe. The Spirit of God took control of him, 
to the only God our Saviour, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, might, and authority, from all ages past, and now, and for ever and ever! Amen.
Those who are led by God's Spirit are God's children. 
They came from Ephraim into the valley, : behind the tribe of Benjamin and its people. : The commanders came down from Machir, : the officers down from Zebulun. 
Then he shall take a handful of it as a token offering and burn it on the altar. Finally, he shall make the woman drink the water. 
I was blind because of the bright light, and so my companions took me by the hand and led me into Damascus. 
Then Jesus left that place, went to the province of Judea, and crossed the River Jordan. Crowds came flocking to him again, and he taught them, as he always did. 
And Jesus concluded, “Be on your guard, then, because you do not know the day or the hour. 
Then he took a child and made him stand in front of them. He put his arms round him and said to them, 
I hate and detest all lies, : but I love your law. 
From now on you must circumcise every baby boy when he is eight days old, including slaves born in your homes and slaves bought from foreigners. This will show that there is a covenant between you and me. 
I will speak of your righteousness all day long, : because those who tried to harm me : have been defeated and disgraced.
He was going into a village when he was met by ten men suffering from a dreaded skin disease. They stood at a distance 
Suddenly he came upon a well out in the fields with three flocks of sheep lying round it. The flocks were watered from this well, which had a large stone over the opening. 
No, in all these things we have complete victory through him who loved us! 
The next morning some Jews met together and made a plan. They took a vow that they would not eat or drink anything until they had killed Paul. 
Then they killed a goat and dipped Joseph's robe in its blood. 
Tell the mountains of Israel to hear the word of the LORD — to hear what I, the Sovereign LORD, am telling the mountains, the hills, the gorges, and the valleys: I will send a sword to destroy the places where people worship idols. 
He helps them and rescues them; : he saves them from the wicked, : because they go to him for protection.
Then I would keep the promise I made to their ancestors that I would give them the rich and fertile land which they now have.” : I said, “Yes, LORD.” 
“Now dedicate the Levites as mine in place of all the firstborn Israelite sons, and dedicate the livestock of the Levites in place of the firstborn of the Israelites' livestock. 
Ahab answered, “There is one more, Micaiah son of Imlah. But I hate him because he never prophesies anything good for me; it's always something bad.” : “You shouldn't say that!” Jehoshaphat replied. 
Every woman in the empire will begin to look down on her husband as soon as she hears what the queen has done. They'll say, ‘King Xerxes commanded Queen Vashti to come to him, and she refused.’ 
Then Peter and John placed their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit. 
I am the LORD who created you; : from the time you were born, I have helped you. : Do not be afraid; you are my servant, : my chosen people whom I love. 
They would camp on the land and destroy the crops as far south as the area round Gaza. They would take all the sheep, cattle, and donkeys, and leave nothing for the Israelites to live on. 
The man raped the engaged woman in the countryside, and although she cried for help, there was no one to help her. 
Let God weigh me on honest scales, : and he will see how innocent I am. 
Never criticize servants to their master. You will be cursed and suffer for it. 
I told the people and their officials and leaders, “The work is spread out over such a distance that we are widely separated from one another on the wall. 
I will attack the people of Israel and Judah like a lion. I myself will tear them to pieces and then leave them. When I drag them off, no one will be able to save them. 
Is that money so important to you that you are willing to risk your own son's life to get it back? 
and brought them to Moses and Eleazar and to the community of the people of Israel, who were at the camp on the plains of Moab across the Jordan from Jericho. 
A curse on the cheat who sacrifices a worthless animal to me, when he has in his flock a good animal that he promised to give me! For I am a great king, and people of all nations fear me.”
Before I had finished my silent prayer, Rebecca came with a water jar on her shoulder and went down to the well to get water. I said to her, ‘Please give me a drink.’ 
Solomon and all the people of Israel celebrated the Festival of Shelters for seven days. There was a huge crowd of people from as far away as Hamath Pass in the north and the Egyptian border in the south. 
If a poor person is wise, he has good reason to be proud, and he will be thought of as someone great. 
Those who love knowledge want to be told when they are wrong. It is stupid to hate being corrected. 
Yet idols are worshipped in Gilead, and those who worship them will die. Bulls are sacrificed in Gilgal, and the altars there will become piles of stone in the open fields.” 
My friends scorn me; : my eyes pour out tears to God. 
You must not leave any of it until morning; if any is left over, it must be burnt. 
Do not abandon me, O LORD; : do not stay away, my God! 
These are the Horite tribes in the land of Edom: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan. 
But when the leader died, the people used to return to the old ways and behave worse than the previous generation. They would serve and worship other gods, and refused to give up their own evil ways. 
No one will think that a fool is honourable or say that a scoundrel is honest. 
Be glad, Israel, because of your Creator; : rejoice, people of Zion, because of your king! 
Jehu had ruled in Samaria as king of Israel for 28 years.
and you know yourself that you have insulted other people many times. 
They spread out over the earth and surrounded the camp of God's people and the city that he loves. But fire came down from heaven and destroyed them. 
The idols cannot save themselves; : they are captured and carried away. : This is the end for Babylon's gods! 
“Is the young man Absalom safe?” the king asked. : Ahimaaz answered, “Sir, when your officer Joab sent me, I saw a great commotion, but I couldn't tell what it was.” 
It is like this. A man takes a mustard seed and sows it in his field. The plant grows and becomes a tree, and the birds make their nests in its branches.” 
The soldiers made a plan to kill all the prisoners, in order to keep them from swimming ashore and escaping. 
He gave instructions as to how much silver and gold was to be used for making the utensils, 
After the sun had risen, God sent a hot east wind, and Jonah was about to faint from the heat of the sun beating down on his head. So he wished he were dead. “I am better off dead than alive,” he said. 
Because they think so highly of themselves, : they think that God will not discover their sin and condemn it. 
So I opened my mouth, and he gave me the scroll to eat. 
Is it easier to say to this paralysed man, ‘Your sins are forgiven’, or to say, ‘Get up, pick up your mat, and walk’?  
The disciples had rowed about five or six kilometres when they saw Jesus walking on the water, coming near the boat, and they were terrified. 
The king of Egypt and his army never marched out of Egypt again, because the king of Babylonia now controlled all the territory that had belonged to Egypt, from the River Euphrates to the northern border of Egypt. 
“Sir,” they asked him, “give us this bread always.” 
Those who worship him and do what is right are acceptable to him, no matter what race they belong to. 
They will pound in your walls with battering rams and tear down your towers with iron bars. 
Rejoice with Jerusalem; be glad for her, : all you that love this city! : Rejoice with her now, : all you that have mourned for her! 
I find my happiness : in obeying your commands. 
The LORD changed his mind and said, “What you saw will not take place.” 
“And now I command that if anyone of any nation, race, or language speaks disrespectfully of the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, he is to be torn limb from limb, and his house is to be made a pile of ruins. There is no other god who can rescue like this.” 
From among the leading priests I chose Sherebiah, Hashabiah, and ten others. 
Selfishness only causes trouble. You are much better off to trust the LORD. 
you are to hand this man over to Satan for his body to be destroyed, so that his spirit may be saved in the Day of the Lord. 
The clan of Machir son of Manasseh invaded the land of Gilead, occupied it, and drove out the Amorites who were there. 
and saves me from my foes. : O LORD, you give me victory over my enemies : and protect me from violent people. 
If you appreciate wisdom, your father will be proud of you. : It is a foolish waste to spend money on prostitutes. 
The disciples looked at one another, completely puzzled about whom he meant. 
be killed by coming near these most sacred objects. To prevent this happening, Aaron and his sons shall go in and assign each man his task and tell him what to carry. 
Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives, across from the Temple, when Peter, James, John, and Andrew came to him in private. 
She threw her arms round the young man, kissed him, looked him straight in the eye, and said, 
The LORD says, “You will see me repay Babylonia and its people for all the evil they did to Jerusalem. 
The real mother, her heart full of love for her son, said to the king, “Please, Your Majesty, don't kill the child! Give it to her!” : But the other woman said, “Don't give it to either of us; go ahead and cut it in two.” 
For God has placed in their hearts the will to carry out his purpose by acting together and giving the beast their power to rule until God's words come true. 
Some devout men buried Stephen, mourning for him with loud cries. 
“Then dedicate the Tent and all its equipment by anointing it with the sacred oil, and it will be holy. 
In the same way that the prophet Jonah was a sign for the people of Nineveh, so the Son of Man will be a sign for the people of this day.  
So prepare a new wagon and two cows that have never been yoked; hitch them to the wagon and drive their calves back to the barn. 
How often they rebelled against him in the desert; : how many times they made him sad! 
Homes are made by the wisdom of women, but are destroyed by foolishness. 
The Sovereign LORD says, “I am going to bring the greatest king of all — King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia — to attack Tyre. He will come from the north with a huge army, with horses and chariots and with cavalry. 
The Gentiles will talk about his wisdom, and he will be praised aloud in the assembly. 
I am your God and will take care of you : until you are old and your hair is grey. : I made you and will care for you; : I will give you help and rescue you. 
When we set up camp on the way home, we opened our sacks, and each man found his money in the top of his sack — every bit of it. We have brought it back to you. 
The King will reply, ‘I tell you, whenever you refused to help one of these least important ones, you refused to help me.’  
In the Year of Restoration, when all property that has been sold is restored to its original owners, the property of Zelophehad's daughters will be permanently added to the tribe into which they marry and will be lost to our tribe.” 
“As surely as I am the living God,” says the Sovereign LORD, “this king will die in Babylonia because he broke his oath and the treaty he had made with the king of Babylonia, who put him on the throne. 
Then the LORD said to me, “Go to the cities of Judah and to the streets of Jerusalem. Proclaim my message there and tell the people to listen to the terms of the covenant and to obey them. 
But Lot's wife looked back and was turned into a pillar of salt. 
The young man saw that Saul was dead, so he too threw himself on his own sword and died with Saul. 
The soldiers made a crown out of thorny branches and put it on his head; then they put a purple robe on him 
At the end of the seven years, she returned to Israel and went to the king to ask for her house and her land to be restored to her. 
Write down a description of these seven divisions and bring it to me. Then I will draw lots to consult the LORD our God for you. 
And you can be sure that if the owner of a house knew the time when the thief would come, he would not let the thief break into his house.  
Later the messengers came back to Ahab with another demand from Benhadad: “I sent you word that you were to hand over to me your silver and gold, your women and your children. 
Command the horses to go : and the chariots to roll! : Send out the soldiers: : men from Ethiopia and Libya, carrying shields, : and skilled archers from Lydia.’ ” 
Even in my suffering I was comforted : because your promise gave me life. 
West Manasseh: 18,000 men chosen to go and make David king; 
Then the priest shall take one of the male lambs and together with the one-third of a litre of oil he shall offer it as a repayment offering. He shall present them as a special gift to the LORD for the priest. 
Offer with them all the other offerings required for the first day. 
He sends the lightning across the sky, : from one end of the earth to the other. 
You must distinguish between what belongs to God and what is for general use, between what is ritually clean and what is unclean. 
The tribe of Zebulun: the clans of Sered, Elon, and Jahleel. 
His chariot was cleaned up at the pool of Samaria, where dogs licked up his blood and prostitutes washed themselves, as the LORD had said would happen. 
He did what was evil, because he did not try to find the LORD's will. 
When it was getting late, his disciples came to him and said, “It is already very late, and this is a lonely place. 
Uriah answered, “The men of Israel and Judah are away at the war, and the Covenant Box is with them; my commander Joab and his officers are camping out in the open. How could I go home, eat and drink, and sleep with my wife? By all that's sacred, I swear that I could never do such a thing!” 
“All these disasters will come on you, and they will be with you until you are destroyed, because you did not obey the LORD your God and keep all the laws that he gave you. 
Whoever welcomes God's messenger because he is God's messenger, will share in his reward. And whoever welcomes a good man because he is good, will share in his reward.  
And in this way you will be sinning against Christ by sinning against your Christian brothers and sisters and wounding their weak conscience. 
The distance across the front of the Temple, including the open space on either side, was also fifty metres. 
Fire burned even in water, which could not put it out. 
Then you will live at peace in your tent; : when you look at your sheep, you will find them safe. 
David was now in great trouble, because his men were all very bitter about losing their children, and they were threatening to stone him; but the LORD his God gave him courage. 
You love everything that exists; you do not despise anything that you have made. If you had not liked it, you would not have made it in the first place. 
For by the blood of Christ we are set free, that is, our sins are forgiven. How great is the grace of God, 
For it is by our faith that we are put right with God; it is by our confession that we are saved. 
Until I come, give your time and effort to the public reading of the Scriptures and to preaching and teaching. 
The LORD spoke to me when King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia and his army, supported by troops from all the nations and races that were subject to him, were attacking Jerusalem and its nearby towns. 
I am poor and needy; : I am hurt to the depths of my heart. 
Jesus answered, “You are a great teacher in Israel, and you don't know this?  
When I was still young, before I started out on my travels, I boldly prayed for Wisdom. 
“If we go to him, what can we give him?” Saul asked. “There is no food left in our packs, and we haven't anything to give him, have we?” 
Then Eliakim, Shebna, and Joah said to the official, “Speak Aramaic to us. We understand it. Don't speak Hebrew; all the people on the wall are listening.” 
So David said, “Then stay here the rest of the day, and tomorrow I'll send you back.” So Uriah stayed in Jerusalem that day and the next. 
In each of the two side walls there were three rows of windows. 
Tie them on your arms and wear them on your foreheads as a reminder. 
You will take your idols plated with silver and your idols covered with gold, and will throw them away like filth, shouting, “Out of my sight!” 
Satan replied, “A person will give up everything in order to stay alive. 
What, then, of those who despise the Son of God? who treat as a cheap thing the blood of God's covenant which purified them from sin? who insult the Spirit of grace? Just think how much worse is the punishment they will deserve! 
He died and was buried in David's City and his son Ahaz succeeded him as king.
Do not get drunk with wine, which will only ruin you; instead, be filled with the Spirit. 
Then the LORD said to Moses, 
He killed their cattle with hail : and their flocks with lightning. 
King David, Zadok, Ahimelech, and the heads of families of the priests and of the Levites were witnesses. The head of each family and one of his younger brothers drew lots for their assignments, just as their relatives, the priests descended from Aaron, had done.
I, the LORD, warn you not to deceive yourselves into thinking that the Babylonians will not come back, because they will. 
Then the LORD said, “I will not allow people to live for ever; they are mortal. From now on they will live no longer than 120 years.” 
I will send my two witnesses dressed in sackcloth, and they will proclaim God's message during those 1,260 days.” 
The gift of proclaiming God's message should be under the speaker's control, 
He also sent word to the Canaanites on both sides of the Jordan, to the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, and the Jebusites in the hill country, as well as to the Hivites who lived at the foot of Mount Hermon in the land of Mizpah. 
The Spirit has given us life; he must also control our lives. 
There are more widows in your land : than grains of sand by the sea. : I killed your young men in their prime : and made their mothers suffer. : I suddenly struck them : with anguish and terror. 
When Balak heard that Balaam was coming, he went to meet him at Ar, a city on the River Arnon at the border of Moab. 
God's Covenant Box was there at Bethel in those days, and Phinehas, the son of Eleazar and grandson of Aaron, was in charge of it. The people asked the LORD, “Should we go out to fight our brothers the Benjaminites again, or should we give up?” : The LORD answered, “Fight. Tomorrow I will give you victory over them.” 
They will be wounded and die in the streets of their cities. 
This is the story of Noah. He had three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Noah had no faults and was the only good man of his time. He lived in fellowship with God, 
You were proud of being handsome, and your fame made you act like a fool. Because of this I hurled you to the ground and left you as a warning to other kings. 
“Take Aaron and his sons to the entrance of the Tent of my presence and bring the priestly garments, the anointing oil, the young bull for the sin offering, the two rams, and the basket of unleavened bread. 
You are as graceful as a palm tree, : and your breasts are clusters of dates. 
Herod was afraid of John because he knew that John was a good and holy man, and so he kept him safe. He liked to listen to him, even though he became greatly disturbed every time he heard him. 
The border went west from Tappuah to the stream of Kanah and ended at the Mediterranean Sea. This was the land given to the families of the tribe of Ephraim as their possession, 
And if I remain alive, please keep your sacred promise and be loyal to me; but if I die,  
but you will have to obey him and keep all his laws that are written in this book of his teachings. You will have to turn to him with all your heart. 
People with no regard for others can throw whole cities into turmoil. Those who are wise keep things calm. 
Wisdom is the Law, the Law which Moses commanded us to keep, the covenant of God Most High, the inheritance of the synagogues of Israel.  
Caravans get lost looking for water; : they wander and die in the desert. 
When the Ammonites saw the Syrians running away, they fled from Abishai and retreated into the city. Then Joab went back to Jerusalem. 
My God is my protection, : and with him I am safe. : He protects me like a shield; : he defends me and keeps me safe. : He is my saviour; : he protects me and saves me from violence. 
He became hungry and wanted something to eat; while the food was being prepared, he had a vision. 
The High Priest and the whole Council can prove that I am telling the truth. I received from them letters written to fellow-Jews in Damascus, so I went there to arrest these people and bring them back in chains to Jerusalem to be punished. 
and his miracles. You saw what he did to the king of Egypt and to his entire country. 
Then he ordered Uriah: “Use this large altar of mine for the morning burnt offerings and the evening grain offerings, for the burnt offerings and grain offerings of the king and the people, and for the people's wine offerings. Pour on it the blood of all the animals that are sacrificed. But keep the bronze altar for me to use for divination.” 
Do not let yourselves be led away from the LORD to worship and serve other gods. 
and from there we went past Ephraim Gate, Jeshanah Gate, the Fish Gate, the Tower of Hananel, and the Tower of the Hundred, to the Sheep Gate. We ended our march near the gate to the Temple. 
In the territory of Naphtali: Kedesh in Galilee, Hammon, and Kiriathaim. 
For God wants you to silence the ignorant talk of foolish people by the good things you do. 
and watch. When the young women of Shiloh come out to dance during the festival, you come out of the vineyards. Each of you take a wife by force from among them and take her back to the territory of Benjamin with you. 
So the people of Israel settled in the territory of the Amorites, 
You saw how a stone broke loose from a cliff without anyone touching it and how it struck the statue made of iron, bronze, clay, silver, and gold. The great God is telling Your Majesty what will happen in the future. I have told you exactly what you dreamt, and have given you its true meaning.” 
they had come to hear him and to be healed of their diseases. Those who were troubled by evil spirits also came and were healed. 
Gossip is spread by wicked people; they stir up trouble and break up friendships. 
“I am telling you the truth,” replied Jesus. “No one can enter the Kingdom of God without being born of water and the Spirit.  
“As surely as I am the living God,” says the Sovereign LORD, “you will not repeat this proverb in Israel any more. 
The LORD does not let us forget his wonderful actions; : he is kind and merciful. 
Then the man said, : “At last, here is one of my own kind — : Bone taken from my bone, and flesh from my flesh. : ‘Woman’ is her name because she was taken out of man.” 
God was always with me then : and gave me light as I walked through the darkness. 
In every city and province, wherever the king's proclamation was read, the Jews held a joyful holiday with feasting and happiness. In fact, many other people became Jews, because they were afraid of them now.
You are going to hear the noise of battles close by and the news of battles far away; but do not be troubled. Such things must happen, but they do not mean that the end has come.  
Then he shall take all its fat and burn it on the altar. 
“ ‘Do not make for yourselves images of anything in heaven or on earth or in the water under the earth. 
He lied about me to Your Majesty, but you are like God's angel, so do what seems right to you. 
In the 38th year of the reign of King Asa of Judah, Ahab son of Omri became king of Israel, and he ruled in Samaria for 22 years. 
God replied in the dream, “Yes, I know that you did it with a clear conscience; so I kept you from sinning against me and did not let you touch her. 
You have six days in which to do your work, 
Now then, tell the people of Judah and of Jerusalem that I am making plans against them and getting ready to punish them. Tell them to stop living sinful lives — to change their ways and the things they are doing. 
A person can show compassion to a neighbour, but the Lord shows compassion for all humanity. He corrects us; he disciplines us; he teaches us. Like a shepherd tending sheep, he brings us back to himself. 
An athlete who runs in a race cannot win the prize unless he obeys the rules. 
For your heart will always be where your riches are. 
So he sent another slave; but the tenants beat him also, treated him shamefully, and sent him back without a thing.  
LORD, I look up to you, : up to heaven, where you rule. 
While Ezra was bowing in prayer in front of the Temple, weeping and confessing these sins, a large group of Israelites — men, women, and children — gathered round him, weeping bitterly. 
Does this happiness that David spoke of belong only to those who are circumcised? No indeed! It belongs also to those who are not circumcised. For we have quoted the scripture, “Abraham believed God, and because of his faith God accepted him as righteous.” 
We welcome this everywhere and at all times, and we are deeply grateful to you. 
Now is the time for this world to be judged; now the ruler of this world will be overthrown.  
But it is the Spirit of Almighty God : that comes to human beings and gives them wisdom. 
Then the skilled men who were doing the work went 
No spring of water pours out sweet water and bitter water from the same opening. 
Jonathan was the father of Meribbaal, who was the father of Micah. 
Then God commanded, “Let there be light” — and light appeared. 
I have never trusted in riches 
Then the LORD told Joshua, “Make some knives out of flint and circumcise the Israelites.” 
Only a few people will survive, and Israel will be like an olive tree from which all the olives have been picked except two or three at the very top, or a few that are left on the lower branches. I, the LORD God of Israel, have spoken.” 
They are making secret plans against your people; : they are plotting against those you protect. 
I was happy with them all, because Wisdom had brought them to me. I had not realized before that she was the source of all these things. 
Our tents are ruined; : the ropes that held them have broken. : Our children have all gone away; : there is no one left to put up our tents again; : there is no one to hang their curtains.” 
Think about what I am saying, because the Lord will enable you to understand it all. 
Because God has made me weak and helpless, : they turn against me with all their fury. 
The living creatures began to fly, and the wheels went with them. The dazzling light of the presence of the God of Israel was over them. 
May you be made strong with all the strength which comes from his glorious power, so that you may be able to endure everything with patience. And with joy give thanks to the Father, who has made you fit to have your share of what God has reserved for his people in the kingdom of light. 
The Philistines heard the shouting and said, “Listen to all that shouting in the Hebrew camp! What does it mean?” When they found out that the LORD's Covenant Box had arrived in the Hebrew camp, 
For the dedication they offered 100 bulls, 200 sheep, and 400 lambs as sacrifices, and twelve goats as offerings for sin, one for each tribe of Israel. 
“ ‘God's curse on anyone who dishonours his father or mother.’ : “And all the people will answer, ‘Amen!’ 
Righteousness will go before the LORD : and prepare the path for him.
All that the wicked own is destroyed, : and fire burns up anything that is left. 
What you say can preserve life or destroy it; so you must accept the consequences of your words. 
Helpless refugees try to find protection in Heshbon, the city that King Sihon once ruled, but it is in flames. Fire has burnt up the frontiers and the mountain heights of the war-loving people of Moab. 
My fellow-believers, be careful that no one among you has a heart so evil and unbelieving as to turn away from the living God. 
The time is coming when you will cry out to the LORD, but he will not answer you. He will not listen to your prayers, for you have done evil. 
Jephthah led Israel for six years. Then he died and was buried in his home town in Gilead. 
“Today you are standing in the presence of the LORD your God, all of you — your leaders and officials, your men, 
This is the LORD's message: : He has decreed punishment for the land of Hadrach and for the city of Damascus. Not only the tribes of Israel, but also the capital of Syria belong to the LORD. 
Kill them, so that they will not make you sin against the LORD by teaching you to do all the disgusting things that they do in the worship of their gods. 
The righteous will be glad when they see sinners punished; : they will wade through the blood of the wicked. 
Now I have heard the groaning of the Israelites, whom the Egyptians have enslaved, and I have remembered my covenant. 
Notice good people, observe the righteous; : peaceful people have descendants, 
She doesn't worry when it snows, because her family has warm clothing. 
Samuel took the olive oil and anointed David in front of his brothers. Immediately the Spirit of the LORD took control of David and was with him from that day on. Then Samuel returned to Ramah. 
As they were leaving, they met Moses and Aaron, who were waiting for them. 
Every Jewish priest performs his services every day and offers the same sacrifices many times; but these sacrifices can never take away sins. 
His cheeks are as lovely as a garden : that is full of herbs and spices. : His lips are like lilies, : wet with liquid myrrh. 
As the scripture says: : “Who knows the mind of the Lord? : Who is able to give him advice? 
you hear my voice in the morning; : at sunrise I offer my prayer : and wait for your answer. 
The next day Jesus decided to go to Galilee. He found Philip and said to him, “Come with me!”  
Why? Because Syria is no stronger than Damascus, its capital city, and Damascus is no stronger than King Rezin. As for Israel, within 65 years it will be too shattered to survive as a nation. 
Our enemies died from the bites of locusts and flies; no way was found to cure them, because they deserved to be punished by such creatures. 
They will fall dead in the open field. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken. 
May the king judge the poor fairly; : may he help the needy : and defeat their oppressors. 
Moses ordained Aaron to office by pouring the sacred anointing oil over his head. An eternal covenant was made with him and his descendants, that they would serve the Lord as his priests and bless the people in the Lord's name. 
In the same way, Christ did not take upon himself the honour of being a high priest. Instead, God said to him: : “You are my Son; : today I have become your Father.” 
Anyone can see that even the wise die, : as well as the foolish and stupid. : They all leave their riches to their descendants. 
She is quick to make herself known to anyone who desires her. 
About this time King Hezekiah fell ill and almost died. The prophet Isaiah son of Amoz went to see him and said to him, “The LORD tells you that you are to put everything in order because you will not recover. Get ready to die.” 
all human beings and animals, birds and fish. I will bring about the downfall of the wicked. I will destroy the whole human race, and no survivors will be left. I, the LORD, have spoken. 
It divided the nation, and a rival kingdom arose in northern Israel. 
“Whenever I want to heal my people Israel and make them prosperous again, all I can see is their wickedness and the evil they do. They cheat one another; they break into houses and steal; they rob people in the streets. 
“Anyone accused of murder may be found guilty and put to death only on the evidence of two or more witnesses; the evidence of one witness is not sufficient to support an accusation of murder. 
Have you really rejected us? : Aren't you going to march out with our armies? 
Beth Marcaboth, Hazarsusim, Bethbiri, and Shaaraim. 
For by God's power I was made an apostle to the Gentiles, just as Peter was made an apostle to the Jews. 
Jesus said, “I shall be with you a little while longer, and then I shall go away to him who sent me.  
Now they lie unknown in the streets, their faces blackened in death; : their skin, dry as wood, has shrivelled on their bones. 
for you are my protector, : my strong defence against my enemies. 
You say, “Do not commit adultery” — but do you commit adultery? You detest idols — but do you rob temples? 
Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet, 
The Angel of Death was afraid of these things, and gave in. It was only a slight experience of your wrath, but it was enough.
Then he measured the north side, the south side, and the west side; each side had the same length, 250 metres,  
His body shone like a jewel. His face was as bright as a flash of lightning, and his eyes blazed like fire. His arms and legs shone like polished bronze, and his voice sounded like the roar of a great crowd. 
We are not people who turn back and are lost. Instead, we have faith and are saved.
The LORD is their powerful defender, and he will argue their case against you. 
So I, the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, promise that Jonadab son of Rechab will always have a male descendant to serve me.”
One day Peter and John went to the Temple at three o'clock in the afternoon, the hour for prayer. 
This is the day of the LORD's victory; : let us be happy, let us celebrate! 
David left the food with the officer in charge of the supplies, ran to the battle line, went to his brothers, and asked how they were getting on. 
There is no way to bring the dead person back. All your sorrow does him no good, and it hurts you. Don't forget that. 
The family lines of those who held this office are as follows: : The clan of Kohath: Heman, the leader of the first choir, was the son of Joel. His family line went back to Jacob as follows: Heman, Joel, Samuel, 
You and your sons alone must fulfil the responsibilities for the Holy Place and the altar, so that my anger will not again break out against the people of Israel. 
The LORD told me to say to the king, “You have burnt the scroll, and you have asked Jeremiah why he wrote that the king of Babylonia would come and destroy this land and kill its people and its animals. 
On the tenth day of the tenth month of the ninth year of our exile, the LORD spoke to me. 
and if Christ has not been raised from death, then we have nothing to preach and you have nothing to believe. 
Listen, everyone who lives on earth! Look for a signal flag to be raised on the tops of the mountains! Listen for the blowing of the bugle! 
Kind words bring life, but cruel words crush your spirit. 
Ahimaaz called out a greeting to the king, threw himself down to the ground before him, and said, “Praise the LORD your God, who has given you victory over the men who rebelled against Your Majesty!” 
God gives wisdom, knowledge, and happiness to those who please him, but he makes sinners work, earning and saving, so that what they get can be given to those who please him. It is all useless. It is like chasing the wind.
In the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who will judge the living and the dead, and because he is coming to rule as King, I solemnly urge you 
They were round me on every side; : but I destroyed them by the power of the LORD! 
I have avoided all evil conduct, : because I want to obey your word. 
“Give me the offerings from your corn, your wine, and your olive oil when they are due. : “Give me your firstborn sons. 
and if you are willing to believe their message, John is Elijah, whose coming was predicted.  
A country is in trouble when its king is a youth and its leaders feast all night long. 
But the LORD God called out to the man, “Where are you?” 
The desert will rejoice, : and flowers will bloom in the wilderness. 
The cities of Haran, Canneh, and Eden, the merchants of Sheba, the cities of Asshur and Chilmad — they all traded with you. 
Jesus answered him, “So you say. But I tell all of you: from this time on you will see the Son of Man sitting on the right of the Almighty and coming on the clouds of heaven!” 
How lonely lies Jerusalem, once so full of people! : Once honoured by the world, she is now like a widow; : The noblest of cities has fallen into slavery. 
What he commands is that we believe in his Son Jesus Christ and love one another, just as Christ commanded us. 
I will dry up the Nile and put Egypt under the power of evil people. Foreigners will devastate the whole country. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
While the battle raged on, King Ahab remained propped up in his chariot, facing the Syrians. The blood from his wound ran down and covered the bottom of the chariot, and at evening he died. 
“What shall I pay you?” Laban asked. : Jacob answered, “I don't want any wages. I will continue to take care of your flocks if you agree to this suggestion
The next day the heads of the clans, together with the priests and the Levites, went to Ezra to study the teachings of the Law. 
You are to do to Ai and its king what you did to Jericho and its king, but this time you may keep its goods and livestock for yourselves. Prepare to attack the city by surprise from the rear.” 
She agreed and sent them away. When they had gone, she tied the red cord to the window. 
Then God's Spirit lifted me up, and I heard behind me the loud roar of a voice that said, “Praise the glory of the LORD in heaven above!” 
Have you got a wife? Then don't try to get rid of her. Are you unmarried? Then don't look for a wife. 
The same thing happened to the second brother, to the third, and finally to all seven. 
As it is, there are many parts but one body. 
They keep on turning away from me to a god that is powerless. They are as unreliable as a crooked bow. Because their leaders talk arrogantly, they will die a violent death, and the Egyptians will laugh.”
They have mouths, but cannot speak, : and eyes, but cannot see. 
“Do not be worried and upset,” Jesus told them. “Believe  in God and believe also in me.  
Listen! I have given you authority, so that you can walk on snakes and scorpions and overcome all the power of the Enemy, and nothing will hurt you.  
And yet, because your mercy is great, : you did not forsake or destroy them. : You are a gracious and merciful God! 
When these things begin to happen, stand up and raise your heads, because your salvation is near.” 
But they had not yet satisfied their craving : and were still eating, 
But they will have to give an account of themselves to God, who is ready to judge the living and the dead. 
The LORD called to Moses from the Tent of the LORD's presence and gave him the following rules 
Are you finally through with your windy speech? 
Daylight makes the hills and valleys stand out : like the folds of a garment, : clear as the imprint of a seal on clay. 
After this, Absalom provided a chariot and horses for himself, and an escort of fifty men. 
Moses obeyed and took 
“You must not enter a house where there is mourning. Do not grieve for anyone. I will no longer bless my people with peace or show them love and mercy. 
You will stumble over one another when no one is chasing you, and you will be unable to fight against any enemy. 
In addition, I have also noticed that in this world you find wickedness where justice and right ought to be. 
As she was being taken out, she sent word to her father-in-law: “I am pregnant by the man who owns these things. Look at them and see whose they are — this seal with its cord and this stick.” 
But I will spare the region of Goshen, where my people live, so that there will be no flies there. I will do this so that you will know that I, the LORD, am at work in this land. 
At that time there was a man named Manoah from the town of Zorah. He was a member of the tribe of Dan. His wife had never been able to have children. 
Wherever you die, I will die, and that is where I will be buried. May the LORD's worst punishment come upon me if I let anything but death separate me from you!” 
At the New Moon Festival he will offer a young bull, six lambs, and a ram, all without any defects. 
Don't be so certain of the Lord's forgiveness that you go on committing one sin after another. 
The clans of Heber and Malchiel traced their descent from Beriah. 
Now it is planted in the desert, : in a dry and waterless land. 
Judith heard how the people were complaining bitterly against Uzziah, now that the water shortage had broken their morale. She learnt that in answer to their complaints he had promised to surrender the town to the Assyrians after five days. 
He said, “This is the blood which seals the covenant that God has commanded you to obey.” 
If you ask me  for anything in my name, I will do it. 
Suddenly a great army of heaven's angels appeared with the angel, singing praises to God
For we are the people he called, not only from among the Jews but also from among the Gentiles. 
When the net is full, they pull it to shore and sit down to divide the fish: the good ones go into their buckets, the worthless ones are thrown away.  
they ate all the plants in the land; : they ate all the crops. 
Do everything without complaining or arguing, 
I have always been a learner and am grateful to everyone who has been my teacher. 
Moses wrote down all the LORD's commands. Early the next morning he built an altar at the foot of the mountain and set up twelve stones, one for each of the twelve tribes of Israel. 
Those helpers who do their work well win for themselves a good standing and are able to speak boldly about their faith in Christ Jesus. 
The LORD said to Samuel, 
The LORD said to Moses, “I now make a covenant with the people of Israel. In their presence I will do great things such as have never been done anywhere on earth among any of the nations. All the people will see what great things I, the LORD, can do, because I am going to do an awesome thing for you. 
This food is for the Levites, since they own no property, and for the foreigners, orphans, and widows who live in your towns. They are to come and get all they need. Do this, and the LORD your God will bless you in everything you do.
Why have you abandoned us so long? : Will you ever remember us again? 
And may God, the source of patience and encouragement, enable you to have the same point of view among yourselves by following the example of Christ Jesus, 
On the fourth day they assembled in the Valley of Beracah and praised the LORD for all he had done. That is why the valley is called “Beracah”.  
Your teachings are wonderful; : I obey them with all my heart. 
Joshua was standing there, wearing filthy clothes. 
Do you know anyone like that? If so, we will congratulate him for performing a miracle that no one else has ever been able to do. 
I am no longer angry with the vineyard. If only there were thorns and briars to fight against, then I would burn them up completely. 
You know, O Lord, that I'm still a virgin; : I have never been defiled by a man. 
Then Joshua ordered the leaders to 
Then Peter stood up with the other eleven apostles and in a loud voice began to speak to the crowd: “Fellow-Jews and all of you who live in Jerusalem, listen to me and let me tell you what this means. 
The LORD, the king of Israel, has this to say: : “You gods of the nations, present your case. : Bring the best arguments you have! 
and he said, “Now then, these are all one people and they speak one language; this is just the beginning of what they are going to do. Soon they will be able to do anything they want! 
This very day he has gone and offered a sacrifice of many bulls, sheep, and fattened calves. He invited all your sons, Joab the commander of your army, and Abiathar the priest, and just now they are feasting with him and shouting, ‘Long live King Adonijah!’ 
For three years and four months, Judith had lived as a widow. 
Sing, heavens! Shout for joy, earth! : Let the mountains burst into song! : The LORD will comfort his people; : he will have pity on his suffering people. 
While I was looking, I could still hear the little horn bragging and boasting. As I watched, the fourth beast was killed, and its body was thrown into the flames and destroyed. 
“Have you noticed how people are saying that I have rejected Israel and Judah, the two families that I chose? And so they look with contempt on my people and no longer consider them a nation. 
Then it goes out and brings along seven other spirits even worse than itself, and they come and live there. So when it is all over, that person is in a worse state than he was at the beginning. This is what will happen to the evil people of this day.” 
You made clever business deals and kept on making profits. How proud you are of your wealth! 
On the willows near by : we hung up our harps. 
They shall eat what was used in the ritual of forgiveness at their ordination. Only priests may eat this food, because it is sacred. 
Your sacred cities are like a desert; Jerusalem is a deserted ruin, 
his brother's widow is to go up to him in the presence of the town leaders, take off one of his sandals, spit in his face, and say, ‘This is what happens to the man who refuses to give his brother a descendant.’ 
Don't try to talk sense to a fool; he can't appreciate it. 
But I have promised you this rich and fertile land as your possession, and I will give it to you. I am the LORD your God, and I have set you apart from the other nations. 
Just now he is probably hiding in a cave or some other place. As soon as David attacks your men, whoever hears about it will say that your men have been defeated. 
Words of thanksgiving and cursing pour out from the same mouth. My brothers and sisters, this should not happen! 
Elderly people wear the crown of long experience, and they can boast of nothing finer than their fear of the Lord. 
I will tell you about ten kinds of people that I feel fortunate to know, especially fortunate in the case of the tenth: : someone who takes pride in his children, : someone who lives to see his enemies fall, 
If you flatter your friends, you set a trap for yourself. 
As the scripture says, “For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and unite with his wife, and the two will become one.” 
At night I long for you with all my heart; : when you judge the earth and its people, : they will all learn what justice is. 
There is no excuse for unjustified anger; it can bring about your downfall. 
I will take them to be slaughtered, like lambs, goats, and rams. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
During your disgusting life as a prostitute you never once remembered your childhood — when you were naked, squirming in your own blood.” 
As surely as I am the living God, you had better listen to me. My sheep have been attacked by wild animals that killed and ate them because there was no shepherd. My shepherds did not try to find the sheep. They were taking care of themselves and not the sheep. 
Gather the people together; : prepare them for a sacred meeting; : bring the old people; : gather the children : and the babies too. : Even newly married couples : must leave their room and come. 
He also said: : “You, Lord, in the beginning created the earth, : and with your own hands you made the heavens. 
Don't make friends with people who have hot, violent tempers. 
I will say to the prisoners, ‘Go free!’ : and to those who are in darkness, : ‘Come out to the light!’ : They will be like sheep that graze on the hills; 
He killed the animal which was for his own burnt offering. His sons brought him the blood, and he threw it on all four sides of the altar. 
When the priest Pashhur son of Immer, who was the chief officer of the Temple, heard me proclaim these things, 
Noah was a perfectly righteous man. After destruction came, he gave the human race a new start. Because of him there were people left on earth when the flood was over. 
When the man approached Absalom to bow down before him, Absalom would reach out, take hold of him, and kiss him. 
Keep what you believe about this matter, then, between yourself and God. Happy are those who do not feel guilty when they do something they judge is right! 
But in that case, how could the Scriptures come true which say that this is what must happen?” 
The king called for Moses and Aaron and said, “Pray to the LORD to take away these frogs, and I will let your people go, so that they can offer sacrifices to the LORD.” 
With his power he forms great masses of clouds : and shatters the ice into hailstones. 
When the Philistines fled, they left their idols behind, and David and his men carried them away. 
He announced to the people, “The man who will come after me is much greater than I am. I am not good enough even to bend down and untie his sandals. 
Gabbai and Sallai, close relatives of Sallu. : In all, 928 Benjaminites lived in Jerusalem. 
Joshua captured all the land — the hill country and foothills, both north and south, all the area of Goshen and the dry country south of it, as well as the Jordan Valley. 
Meshelemiah's family furnished eighteen qualified men. 
King Josiah broke the stone pillars to pieces, cut down the symbols of the goddess Asherah, and the ground where they had stood he covered with human bones. 
David got up early the next morning, left someone else in charge of the sheep, took the food, and went as Jesse had told him to. He arrived at the camp just as the Israelites were going out to their battle line, shouting the war cry. 
They must give him no rest until he restores Jerusalem : And makes it a city the whole world praises. 
‘My son,’ the father answered, ‘you are always here with me, and everything I have is yours.  
Be glad when that happens, and dance for joy, because a great reward is kept for you in heaven. For their ancestors did the very same things to the prophets. 
On the first day and again on the seventh day you are to meet for worship. No work is to be done on those days, but you may prepare food. 
He restored the gold and silver temple utensils which Nebuchadnezzar had taken from the Temple in Jerusalem and had placed in the temple in Babylon. Cyrus handed these utensils over to a man named Sheshbazzar, whom he appointed governor of Judah. 
“Jerusalem, your light will shine brightly for all the world, : and from far away many nations will come to you. : Their people will come to honour the Lord your God, : they will bring gifts for the King of Heaven. : In your streets many generations will sing joyful praise, : your name will endure for ever as God's chosen city. 
You and I are the same in God's sight, : both of us were formed from clay. 
The LORD spoke to me in the tenth year that Zedekiah was king of Judah, which was also the eighteenth year of King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia. 
You are doing what your father did.” : “God himself is the only Father we have,” they answered, “and we are his true children.” 
He had been instructed in the Way of the Lord, and with great enthusiasm he proclaimed and taught correctly the facts about Jesus. However, he knew only the baptism of John. 
Then Jesus left and went away to the territory near the city of Tyre. He went into a house and did not want anyone to know he was there, but he could not stay hidden. 
Now hand over those perverts in Gibeah, so that we can kill them and remove this evil from Israel.” But the people of Benjamin paid no attention to the other Israelites. 
In the same way a Levite also came along, went over and looked at the man, and then walked on by, on the other side.  
Make four carrying rings of gold for it and attach them to its four legs, with two rings on each side. 
Or is God the God of the Jews only? Is he not the God of the Gentiles also? Of course he is. 
And so, your Excellency, because I have carefully studied all these matters from their beginning, I thought it would be good to write an orderly account for you. 
I will pull down the images of the goddess Asherah in your land and destroy your cities. 
Then Moses brought the young bull for the sin offering, and Aaron and his sons put their hands on its head. 
and made his home in a town named Nazareth. And so what the prophets had said came true: “He will be called a Nazarene.”
“Elijah is indeed coming first,” answered Jesus, “and he will get everything ready.  
“He found them wandering through the desert, : a desolate, windswept wilderness. : He protected them and cared for them, : as he would protect himself. 
Zechariah said to the angel, “How shall I know if this is so? I am an old man, and my wife is old also.” 
So they gave the following instructions and sent them all through Jerusalem and the other cities and towns: “Go out to the hills and get branches from pines, olives, myrtles, palms, and other trees to make shelters according to the instructions written in the Law.” 
Reumah, Nahor's concubine, bore Tebah, Gaham, Tahash, and Maacah.
The LORD says, “Now, let's settle the matter. You are stained red with sin, but I will wash you as clean as snow. Although your stains are deep red, you will be as white as wool.  
Have you asked God to show you your faults, : and have you agreed to stop doing evil? 
Lamech lived another 595 years. He had other children 
LORD our God, we have been ruled by others, : but you alone are our LORD. 
Like a lion coming out of the thick woods along the Jordan up to the green pasture land, I will come and make the Edomites run away suddenly from their country. Then the leader I choose will rule the nation. Who can be compared to me? Who would dare challenge me? What ruler could oppose me? 
The bridegroom was late in coming, so the women began to nod and fall asleep. 
But nations that do not serve you : Will be completely destroyed. 
And so his love for you grows stronger, as he remembers how all of you were ready to obey his instructions, how you welcomed him with fear and trembling. 
by whom we are set free, that is, our sins are forgiven. 
And so I tell you that I will send you prophets and wise men and teachers; you will kill some of them, crucify others, and whip others in the synagogues and chase them from town to town.  
“O Lord, the God of my ancestor Simeon, remember how you armed Simeon with a sword to take revenge on those foreigners who seized Dinah, who was a virgin, tore off her clothes, and defiled her; they stripped her naked and shamed her; they raped her and disgraced her, even though you had forbidden this. 
His son by the slave woman was born in the usual way, but his son by the free woman was born as a result of God's promise. 
The proud have set a trap for me; : they have laid their snares : and along the path they have set traps to catch me. 
“When I go, you will not be left all alone; I will come back to you.  
A wise person's knowledge is like a river that never runs dry, like an ever-flowing stream of good advice. 
Do not banish me from your presence; : do not take your Holy Spirit away from me. 
It is he who gave me true knowledge of the forces of nature: what the world is made of; how the elements behave; 
Abishai, whose mother was Zeruiah, defeated the Edomites in the Valley of Salt and killed 18,000 of them. 
pray at all times, 
So the Israelites deserted David and went with Sheba, but the men of Judah remained loyal and followed David from the Jordan to Jerusalem. 
For when the trumpet sounds, the dead will be raised, never to die again, and we shall all be changed. 
and those in the east will praise him. The people who live along the sea will praise the LORD, the God of Israel. 
Every governor who had been in office before me had been a burden to the people and had demanded forty silver coins a day for food and wine. Even their servants had oppressed the people. But I acted differently, because I honoured God. 
None of us lives for himself only, none of us dies for himself only. 
Josiah did what was pleasing to the LORD; he followed the example of his ancestor King David, strictly obeying all the laws of God. 
and after that at Alush. 
I refuse to reject the grace of God. But if a person is put right with God through the Law, it means that Christ died for nothing!
The LORD said, “Mortal man, take a sharp sword and use it to shave off your beard and all your hair. Then weigh the hair on scales and divide it into three parts. 
In a loud voice he asked God's blessings on all the people assembled there. He said, 
Nor did they repent of their murders, their magic, their sexual immorality, or their stealing.
You will be driven away from human society, live with wild animals, and eat grass like an ox for seven years. Then you will acknowledge that the Supreme God has power over human kingdoms and that he can give them to anyone he chooses.” 
thousands join the funeral procession, : and even the earth lies gently on their bodies. 
You will turn away from Egypt, hanging your head in shame. I, the LORD, have rejected those you trust; you will not gain anything from them.”
How good you are — how kind! : Teach me your commands. 
But Jacob said, “My son cannot go with you; his brother is dead, and he is the only one left. Something might happen to him on the way. I am an old man, and the sorrow you would cause me would kill me.”
But I will heal this city and its people and restore them to health. I will show them abundant peace and security. 
You found that he was faithful to you, : and you made a covenant with him. : You promised to give him the land of the Canaanites, : the land of the Hittites and the Amorites, : the land of the Perizzites, the Jebusites, and the Girgashites, : to be a land where his descendants would live. : You kept your promise, because you are faithful. 
and performed his mighty acts and miracles : in the plain of Zoan in the land of Egypt. 
“LORD God, source of all life, appoint, I pray, a man who can lead the people 
All the other things that Amaziah did from the beginning to the end of his reign are recorded in The History of the Kings of Judah and Israel. 
The LORD will once again be merciful to his people Israel and choose them as his own. He will let them live in their own land again, and foreigners will come and live there with them. 
The LORD spoke to me. 
So then, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another, so that you will be healed. The prayer of a good person has a powerful effect. 
The LORD will bless them and save them; : God will declare them innocent. 
The LORD Almighty says, “The time is coming when people from many cities will come to Jerusalem. 
But I call to the LORD God for help, : and he will save me. 
Every time they went into battle, the LORD was against them, just as he had said he would be. They were in great distress. 
So Zadok, Nathan, Benaiah, and the royal bodyguard put Solomon on King David's mule, and escorted him to the spring of Gihon. 
Were you content to follow in their footsteps and copy their disgusting actions? No, in only a little while you were behaving worse than they were in everything you did. 
Now, concerning what you wrote about food offered to idols. : It is true, of course, that “all of us have knowledge”, as they say. Such knowledge, however, puffs a person up with pride; but love builds up. 
‘Let's get some wine,’ these drunkards say, ‘and drink all we can hold! Tomorrow will be even better than today!’ ”
No Israelite may eat any fat or any blood; this is a rule to be kept for ever by all Israelites wherever they live.
And if one of the occupation troops forces you to carry his pack one kilometre, carry it two kilometres.  
In another vision I saw a man with a measuring line in his hand. 
You are expecting Egypt to help you, but that would be like using a reed as a walking stick — it would break and jab your hand. That is what the king of Egypt is like when anyone relies on him.” 
Because Lot was afraid to stay in Zoar, he and his two daughters moved up into the hills and lived in a cave. 
“When you lend money or food or anything else to a fellow-Israelite, do not charge him interest. 
to love her is to be perfectly happy, to do her work is to be rich beyond measure, to share her company is to have sound judgement, to converse with her is to be honoured. Then I was determined to take Wisdom as my bride. 
Jacob left Beersheba and started towards Haran. 
Come to our aid! : Because of your constant love save us!
Worship the LORD, all the earth! : Honour him, all peoples of the world! 
But the LORD took me from my work as a shepherd and ordered me to come and prophesy to his people Israel. 
it included the Jordan Valley from Lake Galilee south to Beth Jeshimoth (east of the Dead Sea) and on towards the foot of Mount Pisgah. 
You did not bring me your burnt offerings of sheep; : you did not honour me with your sacrifices. : I did not burden you by demanding offerings : or wear you out by asking for incense. 
Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. The first heaven and the first earth disappeared, and the sea vanished. 
So Jesus told them this parable
Jesus said, “Let the children come to me and do not stop them, because the Kingdom of heaven belongs to such as these.” 
False prophets appeared in the past among the people, and in the same way false teachers will appear among you. They will bring in destructive, untrue doctrines, and will deny the Master who redeemed them, and so they will bring upon themselves sudden destruction. 
You must not be called ‘Teacher’, because you are all members of one family and have only one Teacher.  
Then the man took me to the entrance of the rooms facing north near the gate on the south side of the inner courtyard. These are holy rooms for the priests. He pointed out a place on the west side of the rooms 
And so the joy of victory was turned into sadness for all David's troops that day, because they heard that the king was mourning for his son. 
There is no fear in love; perfect love drives out all fear. So then, love has not been made perfect in anyone who is afraid, because fear has to do with punishment. 
In the desert I showed mercy to those people who had escaped death. When the people of Israel longed for rest, 
Next, dedicate the altar and all its equipment by anointing it, and it will be completely holy. 
The priest shall burn it, because it is a spreading mildew which must be destroyed by fire. 
The priest shall burn all this on the altar as a food offering pleasing to the LORD. All the fat belongs to the LORD. 
Then Raphael called the two men aside and said to them, “Praise God and tell everyone about the good things he has done for you, so that they too will honour him and sing his praises. Let everyone know what God has done. Never stop praising him. 
You can take it to him to eat, and he will give you his blessing before he dies.” 
I am always in disgrace; : I am covered with shame 
He made carrying poles of acacia wood, covered them with bronze, 
These are the descendants of Ephraim from generation to generation: Shuthelah, Bered, Tahath, Eleadah, Tahath, 
Pause a moment, Job, and listen; : consider the wonderful things God does. 
The Philistine soldiers went out on raids from their camp in three groups: one group went towards Ophrah in the territory of Shual, 
“If you have ears, then, listen to what the Spirit says to the churches! :   “Those who win the victory will not be hurt by the second death. 
I keep them ready for times of trouble, : for days of battle and war. 
Humble yourselves, then, under God's mighty hand, so that he will lift you up in his own good time. 
Just tell them you were begging me not to send you back to prison to die there.” 
It may be that someone there will not obey the message we send you in this letter. If so, take note of that person and have nothing to do with him or her, so that they will be ashamed. 
But one of you will say to me, “If this is so, how can God find fault with anyone? Who can resist God's will?” 
All round its lower hem put pomegranates of blue, purple, and red wool, alternating with gold bells. 
There has never been a prophet in Israel like Moses; the LORD spoke with him face to face. 
Moses replied, “Don't be afraid; God has only come to test you and make you keep on obeying him, so that you will not sin.” 
That is why I am sending him to you — to tell you how all of us are getting on, and to encourage you. 
You can be sure that evil people will be punished, but the righteous will escape. 
Is it right for you to be so cruel? : To despise what you yourself have made? : And then to smile on the schemes of wicked people? 
God said to me, “Mortal man, the people of Israel are like these bones. They say that they are dried up, without any hope and with no future. 
The LORD says, “The people of Tyre have sinned again and again, and for this I will certainly punish them. They carried off a whole nation into exile in the land of Edom, and did not keep the treaty of friendship they had made. 
May his creditors take away all his property, : and may strangers get everything he worked for. 
It is true that we live in the world, but we do not fight from worldly motives. 
He will save his people Israel : from all their sins.
“Let the fig tree teach you a lesson. When its branches become green and tender and it starts putting out leaves, you know that summer is near.  
When he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to shout, “Jesus! Son of David! Take pity on me!” 
Tell the kings and all the people of Judah and everyone who lives in Jerusalem and enters these gates, to listen to what I say. 
You will eat your share of the sacrifices, but still be hungry. You will worship the fertility gods, but still have no children, because you have turned away from me to follow other gods.” 
Ezra was a scholar with a thorough knowledge of the Law which the LORD, the God of Israel, had given to Moses. Because Ezra had the blessing of the LORD his God, the emperor gave him everything he asked for. In the seventh year of the reign of Artaxerxes, Ezra set out from Babylonia for Jerusalem with a group of Israelites which included priests, Levites, temple musicians, temple guards, and workmen. 
and gave them to Baruch, the son of Neriah and grandson of Mahseiah. I gave them to him in the presence of Hanamel and of the witnesses who had signed the deed of purchase and of the people who were sitting in the courtyard. 
Three days later Jeroboam and all the people returned to King Rehoboam, as he had instructed them. 
Although the LORD warned Manasseh and his people, they refused to listen. 
In this way he will strengthen you, and you will be perfect and holy in the presence of our God and Father when our Lord Jesus comes with all who belong to him.
I will not break my covenant with him : or take back even one promise I made him. 
“Of course,” Peter answered. : When Peter went into the house, Jesus spoke up first, “Simon, what is your opinion? Who pays duties or taxes to the kings of this world? The citizens of the country or the foreigners?” 
a deep pit at Acacia City, and I will punish all of you. 
I took her body, cut it in pieces, and sent one piece to each of the twelve tribes of Israel. These people have committed an evil and immoral act among us. 
But the Israelites killed many of the enemy in battle and occupied their land from the River Arnon north to the Jabbok, that is, to the Ammonites, because the Ammonite border was strongly defended.  
These clans numbered 76,500 men. 
Sensible people will see trouble coming and avoid it, but an unthinking person will walk right into it and regret it later. 
The supervisor of the Levites who lived in Jerusalem was Uzzi, the son of Bani and grandson of Hashabiah. His ancestors included Mattaniah and Mica, and he belonged to the clan of Asaph, the clan that was responsible for the music in the temple services. 
As a result, the whole palace guard and all the others here know that I am in prison because I am a servant of Christ. 
When the dew evaporated, there was something thin and flaky on the surface of the desert.
One of them was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. 
and chose capable men from among all the Israelites. He appointed them as leaders of thousands, hundreds, fifties, and tens. 
If someone is angry with you, a gift given secretly will calm him down. 
Give to the Most High as he has given to you, just as generously as you can. 
The LORD would speak with Moses face to face, just as someone speaks with a friend. Then Moses would return to the camp. But the young man who was his helper, Joshua son of Nun, stayed in the Tent. 
He came towards the ram, which I had seen standing beside the river, and rushed at him with all his force. 
So then, you will get what you deserve, and your own actions will make you sick. 
On the west, those under the banner of the division of Ephraim shall camp in their groups, under their leaders, as follows: :  :  :  : Ephraim : Elishama son of Ammihud : 40,500 : Manasseh : Gamaliel son of Pedahzur : 32,200 : Benjamin : Abidan son of Gideoni : 35,400 : Total: : 108,100 : The division of Ephraim shall march third. 
Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came to me and said, “Come, and I will show you how the famous prostitute is to be punished, that great city that is built near many rivers. 
After all, a king can only do what previous kings have done. : So I started thinking about what it meant to be wise or reckless or foolish. 
“The king of Syria will go back and gather a larger army than he had before. When the proper time comes, he will return with a large, well-equipped army. 
I have been evil from the day I was born; : from the time I was conceived, I have been sinful. 
I saw that there were no people; : even the birds had flown away. 
Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, “As we go into battle, I will disguise myself, but you wear your royal garments.” So the king of Israel went into battle in disguise. 
If the lender insists on being paid, he can count himself lucky to get back half. If he doesn't insist, the borrower has robbed him and made an unnecessary enemy. All the lender will get from him are curses, insults, and disrespect, but never any gratitude. 
At once the commander took some officers and soldiers and rushed down to the crowd. When the people saw him with the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul. 
All the leaders of the Edomite and Moabite forces, along with the commanders of the troops from the Mediterranean coast, came to Holofernes and said, 
At my table they will eat all they can hold of horses and their riders and of soldiers and fighting men. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken.” 
My people will return weeping, : praying as I lead them back. : I will guide them to streams of water, : on a smooth road where they will not stumble. : I am like a father to Israel, : and Ephraim is my eldest son.” 
The LORD says, “All their evil-doing began in Gilgal. It was there that I began to hate them. And because of the evil they have done, I will drive them out of my land. I will not love them any more; all their leaders have rebelled against me. 
When the soldiers heard what had happened, they were horrified 
Before you sold the property, it belonged to you; and after you sold it, the money was yours. Why, then, did you decide to do such a thing? You have not lied to human beings — you have lied to God!” 
“Observe the Sabbath and keep it holy. 
Make your father and mother proud of you; give your mother that happiness. 
Saul replied, “A good idea! Let's go.” So they went to the town where the holy man lived. As they were going up the hill to the town, they met some young women who were coming out to draw water. They asked these women, “Is the seer in town?” : (At that time a prophet was called a seer, and so whenever someone wanted to ask God a question, he would say, “Let's go to the seer.”) 
Mahli, Mushi, and Jaaziah, descendants of Merari. 
“When you take a census of the men fit for military service, do not include the tribe of Levi. 
Jesus said to them, “When you pray, say this: :   ‘Father: :   May your holy name be honoured; :   may your Kingdom come. 
But if you have something to say, let me hear it; : I would gladly admit you are in the right. 
Then he took Simon to Jesus. : Jesus looked at him and said, “Your name is Simon son of John, but you will be called Cephas.” (This is the same as Peter and means “a rock”.) 
Does a clay pot dare to argue with its maker, : a pot that is like all the others? : Does the clay ask the potter what he is doing? : Does the pot complain that its maker has no skill? 
The victorious men of Jerusalem : will attack Edom and rule over it. : And the LORD himself will be King.”
The believers in Antioch were full of joy and the Holy Spirit.
or taken pride in my wealth. 
When Hushai, David's trusted friend, met Absalom, he shouted, “Long live the king! Long live the king!” 
His officials took his body back to Jerusalem in a chariot and buried him in the royal tombs in David's City. 
Look how the wild flowers grow: they don't work or make clothes for themselves. But I tell you that not even King Solomon with all his wealth had clothes as beautiful as one of these flowers.  
The Devil said to him, “If you are God's Son, order this stone to turn into bread.” 
“The Helper will come — the Spirit, who reveals the truth about God and who comes from the Father. I will send him to you from the Father, and he will speak about me.  
The following regulations are to be observed for all time to come. On the tenth day of the seventh month the Israelites and the foreigners living among them must fast and must not do any work. 
by our message of truth, and by the power of God. We have righteousness as our weapon, both to attack and to defend ourselves. 
Who has felt the full power of your anger? : Who knows what fear your fury can bring? 
You are good to us and forgiving, : full of constant love for all who pray to you. 
On that day Deborah and Barak son of Abinoam sang this song
“Listen to me, descendants of Jacob, : all who are left of my people. : I have cared for you from the time you were born. 
He said, “Get up. Let's go.” But there was no answer. So he put her body across the donkey and started on his way home. 
“Those who will rebuild you are coming soon, : and those who destroyed you will leave. 
And so, the time will come when it will no longer be called Topheth or the Valley of Hinnom, but the Valley of Slaughter. They will bury people there because there will be nowhere else to bury them. 
So I took the entire Rechabite clan — Jaazaniah (the son of another Jeremiah, who was Habazziniah's son) and all his brothers and sons — 
The Temple which King Solomon built was 27 metres long and nine metres wide. 
Gog and his army and his allies will fall dead on the mountains of Israel, and I will let their bodies be food for all the birds and wild animals. 
While Joshua was near Jericho, he suddenly saw a man standing in front of him, holding a sword. Joshua went up to him and asked, “Are you one of our soldiers, or an enemy?” 
Saul built an altar to the LORD, the first one that he built. 
The LORD goes out to fight like a warrior; : he is ready and eager for battle. : He gives a war cry, a battle shout; : he shows his power against his enemies. 
“You are no more intelligent than the others,” Jesus said to them. “Don't you understand? Nothing that goes into a person from the outside can really make him unclean,  
12,000 from each tribe: Judah, Reuben, Gad, Asher, Naphtali, Manasseh, Simeon, Levi, Issachar, Zebulun, Joseph, and Benjamin. 
Ulam's sons were outstanding soldiers and archers. He had 150 sons and grandsons in all. All those named above were members of the tribe of Benjamin.
During the time that Shalmaneser was emperor of Assyria, I was taken captive in my home town of Thisbe, located in northern Galilee, south of Kadesh in Naphtali, north-west of Hazor, and north of Phogor. 
Barzillai, from Gilead, had also come down from Rogelim to escort the king across the Jordan. 
Anyone who has no relative to buy it back may later become prosperous and have enough to buy it back. 
You failed in your duty, Abner! I swear by the living LORD that all of you deserve to die, because you have not protected your master, whom the LORD made king. Look! Where is the king's spear? Where is the water jar that was beside his head?” 
The king is glad, O LORD, because you gave him strength; : he rejoices because you made him victorious. 
For the people who live in Jerusalem and their leaders did not know that he is the Saviour, nor did they understand the words of the prophets that are read every Sabbath. Yet they made the prophets' words come true by condemning Jesus. 
The people shouted in answer, “We will do whatever you say.” 
From sunset on the ninth day of the month to sunset on the tenth observe this day as a special day of rest, during which nothing may be eaten. 
The LORD sent fire down, and it burnt up the sacrifice, the wood, and the stones, scorched the earth and dried up the water in the trench. 
“You will feel all the force of my anger and rage until I am satisfied. When all this happens, you will be convinced that I, the LORD, have spoken to you because I am outraged at your unfaithfulness. 
“You will find out when you go into some back room to hide,” Micaiah replied. 
and how much pure gold in making the altar on which incense was burnt and in making the chariot for the winged creatures that spread their wings over the LORD's Covenant Box. 
How I love to do your will, my God! : I keep your teaching in my heart.” 
Adam named his wife Eve, because she was the mother of all human beings. 
Your soldiers have stumbled and fallen; : each one says to the other, : ‘Hurry! Let's go home to our people : and escape the enemy's sword!’ 
and I think you ought to know about it. Now then, if you want it, buy it in the presence of these men sitting here. But if you don't want it, say so, because the right to buy it belongs first to you and then to me.” : The man said, “I will buy it.” 
For God has revealed his grace for the salvation of the whole human race. 
The assembly will be eager to hear from an intelligent person and will take his opinion seriously. 
Jokmeam, Beth Horon, 
30 small gold bowls
All of us, then, reflect the glory of the Lord with uncovered faces; and that same glory, coming from the Lord, who is the Spirit, transforms us into his likeness in an ever greater degree of glory.
With God on our side we will win; : he will defeat our enemies.
Be strong and courageous! Let's fight hard for our people and for the cities of our God. And may the LORD's will be done!” 
and makes them companions of princes, : the princes of his people. 
: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra, : Amariah, Malluch, Hattush, : Shecaniah, Rehum, Meremoth, : Iddo, Ginnethoi, Abijah, : Mijamin, Maadiah, Bilgah, : Shemaiah, Joiarib, Jedaiah, : Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, and Jedaiah. : These men were leaders among all their fellow-priests in the days of Joshua.
The priest shall pour some of the oil into the palm of his own left-hand 
Children that you have by other women will do you no good. 
You are doomed! You call evil good and call good evil. You turn darkness into light and light into darkness. You make what is bitter sweet, and what is sweet you make bitter. 
“When you pray, do not use a lot of meaningless words, as the pagans do, who think that their gods will hear them because their prayers are long.  
He will hear his forsaken people : and listen to their prayer. 
You are witnesses of these things.  
From now on a family of five will be divided, three against two and two against three.  
And all who heard were completely amazed. “How well he does everything!” they exclaimed. “He even causes the deaf to hear and the dumb to speak!”
They lose their courage : and come trembling from their fortresses. 
The Word was the source of life, and this life brought light to humanity. 
Moses answered, “I must do this because the people come to me to learn God's will. 
During the wheat harvest Reuben went into the fields and found mandrakes, which he brought to his mother Leah. Rachel said to Leah, “Please give me some of your son's mandrakes.” 
“By my great power and strength I created the world, the human race, and all the animals that live on the earth; and I give it to anyone I choose. 
So he led his chosen people out, : and they sang and shouted for joy. 
because I have chosen it and consecrated it as the place where I will be worshipped for ever. I will watch over it and protect it for all time. 
So let us come near to God with a sincere heart and a sure faith, with hearts that have been purified from a guilty conscience and with bodies washed with clean water. 
Baal of Peor. So the LORD was angry with them 
But whoever holds out to the end will be saved.  
I will put my breath in them, bring them back to life, and let them live in their own land. Then they will know that I am the LORD. I have promised that I would do this — and I will. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
Who dug a channel for the pouring rain : and cleared the way for the thunderstorm? 
The LORD is a warrior; : the LORD is his name. 
Keep the morning star from shining; : give that night no hope of dawn. 
I will prove to you, then, that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins.” So he said to the paralysed man, “I tell you, get up, pick up your bed, and go home!” 
We write to you about the Word of life, which has existed from the very beginning. We have heard it, and we have seen it with our eyes; yes, we have seen it, and our hands have touched it. 
We obey the Law that Moses gave us, : our nation's most treasured possession. 
But you have done even worse than your ancestors. All of you are stubborn and evil, and you do not obey me. 
Intelligence wins respect, but those who can't be trusted are on the road to ruin. 
because the wicked have drawn their bows and aimed their arrows : to shoot from the shadows at good people. 
In this way he has given us the very great and precious gifts he promised, so that by means of these gifts you may escape from the destructive lust that is in the world, and may come to share the divine nature. 
They all consulted him, to hear the wisdom that God had given him. 
I will oppose him. I will make an example of him. I will remove him from the community of my people, so that you will know that I am the LORD. 
I looked up and saw a storm coming from the north. Lightning was flashing from a huge cloud, and the sky round it was glowing. Where the lightning was flashing, something shone like bronze. 
Wake up and weep, you drunkards; : cry, you wine drinkers; : the grapes for making new wine have been destroyed. 
From the east to the west : praise the name of the LORD! 
Then you will be safe; you will be as secure as if you were in a strong fortress. You will have food to eat and water to drink. 
The LORD said to Noah, “Go into the boat with your whole family; I have found that you are the only one in all the world who does what is right. 
Jesse had seven sons. In order of age they were: Eliab, Abinadab, Shammah, 
Jesus had pity on them and touched their eyes; at once they were able to see, and they followed him.
The words of the prophets agree completely with this. As the scripture says
All such things are only a shadow of things in the future; the reality is Christ. 
While Jacob was living in that land, Reuben had sexual intercourse with Bilhah, one of his father's concubines; Jacob heard about it and was furious. : Jacob had twelve sons. 
Make him stand in front of Eleazar the priest and the whole community, and there before them all proclaim him as your successor. 
You spoke to me, and I listened to every word. I belong to you, LORD God Almighty, and so your words filled my heart with joy and happiness. 
There are four things that are impressive to watch as they walk
They will disappear, but you will remain; : they will all wear out like clothes. : You will discard them like clothes, : and they will vanish. 
Then the people of Israel — the priests, the Levites, and all the others who had returned from exile — joyfully dedicated the Temple. 
an eagle flying in the sky, : a snake moving on a rock, : a ship finding its way over the sea, : and a man and a woman falling in love. 
They sent messengers to the people of Kiriath Jearim to say, “The Philistines have returned the LORD's Covenant Box. Come down and fetch it.”
Then I saw two men standing by a river, one on each bank. 
If you appreciate wisdom when you hear it, you will become wise yourself, and your words will be a source of wisdom for others. 
Guard against turning back from the grace of God. Let no one become like a bitter plant that grows up and causes many troubles with its poison. 
Then Jesus said to them, “This very night all of you will run away and leave me, for the scripture says, ‘God will kill the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.’  
If you oppress poor people, you insult the God who made them; but kindness shown to the poor is an act of worship. 
Even though the returning exiles were afraid of the people who were living in the land, they rebuilt the altar where it had stood before. Then they began once again to burn on it the regular morning and evening sacrifices. 
The people of Israel will be strong like soldiers, : happy like men who have been drinking wine. : Their descendants will remember this victory : and be glad because of what the LORD has done. 
So he got up and started back to his father. :   “He was still a long way from home when his father saw him; his heart was filled with pity, and he ran, threw his arms round his son, and kissed him.  
A king does not win because of his powerful army; : a soldier does not triumph because of his strength. 
Everything else that King Asa did, his brave deeds and the towns he fortified, are all recorded in The History of the Kings of Judah. But in his old age he was crippled by a foot disease. 
All our sacred symbols are gone; : there are no prophets left, : and no one knows how long this will last. 
But these nations do not know what is in the LORD's mind. They do not realize that they have been gathered together to be punished in the same way that corn is brought in to be threshed. 
You said you would climb to the tops of the clouds and be like the Almighty. 
Those who used to rob must stop robbing and start working, in order to earn an honest living for themselves and to be able to help the poor. 
Now, you can see and hear for yourselves what this fellow Paul is doing. He says that gods made by human hands are not gods at all, and he has succeeded in convincing many people, both here in Ephesus and in nearly the whole province of Asia. 
I went on to Jerusalem, and for three days 
Now! His right-hand holds the arrow marked ‘Jerusalem’! It tells him to go and set up battering rams, to shout the battle cry, to place battering rams against the gates, to throw up earthworks, and to dig trenches. 
It is no use for them to worship me, :   because they teach human rules as though they were my laws!’ ” 
“We gave you strict orders not to teach in the name of this man,” he said; “but see what you have done! You have spread your teaching all over Jerusalem, and you want to make us responsible for his death!” 
He looks on the people of the earth as nothing; : angels in heaven and people on earth : are under his control. : No one can oppose his will : or question what he does. 
David continued on his way with 400 men; the other 200 men were too tired to cross the brook and so stayed behind. 
Then the whole assembly sent word to the Benjaminites who were at the Rock of Rimmon and offered to end the war. 
Six days before the Passover, Jesus went to Bethany, the home of Lazarus, the man he had raised from death. 
Someone who is always thinking about happiness is a fool. A wise person thinks about death. 
But if you and your people ever disobey the laws and commands I have given you, and worship other gods, 
Early in the morning all the chief priests and the elders made their plans against Jesus to put him to death. 
Zabad, Shuthelah. Ephraim had two other sons besides Shuthelah: Ezer and Elead, who were killed when they tried to steal the livestock belonging to the native inhabitants of Gath. 
She said to him, “If you have made a promise to the LORD, do what you said you would do to me, since the LORD has given you revenge on your enemies, the Ammonites.” 
Like lions with nothing to kill and eat, : they die, and all their children are scattered. 
Then he went to the innermost room. He measured the passage leading into it: it was one metre deep and three metres wide, with walls on either side 3.5 metres thick.  
I've perfumed it with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon. 
They told him what would be done for the man who killed Goliath. 
The king made Benaiah commander of the army in Joab's place and put Zadok the priest in Abiathar's place. 
So the messenger went to David and told him what Joab had commanded him to say. 
Remember that I, the LORD, have given you a day of rest, and that is why on the sixth day I will always give you enough food for two days. Everyone is to stay where he is on the seventh day and not leave his home.” 
They will stretch out their hands as if they were trying to swim, but God will humiliate them, and their hands will sink helplessly. 
It's no use going into the city, because we would starve to death in there; but if we stay here, we'll die also. So let's go to the Syrian camp; the worst they can do is kill us, but maybe they will spare our lives.” 
When they ask you where they should go, tell them that I have said: : Some are doomed to die by disease — : that's where they will go! : Others are doomed to die in war — : that's where they will go! : Some are doomed to die of starvation — : that's where they will go! : Others are doomed to be taken away as prisoners — : that's where they will go! 
There shall be no more night, and they will not need lamps or sunlight, because the Lord God will be their light, and they will rule as kings for ever and ever. 
The LORD said to Abram, “Leave your country, your relatives, and your father's home, and go to a land that I am going to show you. 
Death! The very thought of it is bitter to someone who is prosperous, living peacefully with his possessions, free of worries, and still able to enjoy his food. 
This was the second miracle that Jesus performed after coming from Judea to Galilee.
We also asked them their names so that we could inform you who the leaders of this work are. 
I was glad when they said to me, : “Let us go to the LORD's house.” 
There was a man named Job, living in the land of Uz, who worshipped God and was faithful to him. He was a good man, careful not to do anything evil. 
Get a couple of scoundrels to accuse him to his face of cursing God and the king. Then take him out of the city and stone him to death.” 
They do not believe, because their minds have been kept in the dark by the evil god of this world. He keeps them from seeing the light shining on them, the light that comes from the Good News about the glory of Christ, who is the exact likeness of God. 
He trains me for battle, : so that I can use the strongest bow. 
all of them went together to the king to accuse Daniel. They said, “Your Majesty, you signed an order that for the next thirty days anyone who requested anything from any god or from any human being except you, would be thrown into a pit filled with lions.” : The king replied, “Yes, a strict order, a law of the Medes and Persians, which cannot be changed.” 
In the first year that Cyrus of Persia was emperor, the LORD made what he had said through the prophet Jeremiah come true. He prompted Cyrus to issue the following command and send it out in writing to be read aloud everywhere in his empire
If she is sold to someone who intends to make her his wife, but he doesn't like her, then she is to be sold back to her father; her master cannot sell her to foreigners, because he has treated her unfairly. 
Raguel called his wife and said, “Get the spare room ready, my dear, and take Sarah there.” 
You crossed the Jordan and came to Jericho. The men of Jericho fought against you, as did the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Girgashites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. But I gave you victory over them all. 
More than that, we are shown to be lying about God, because we said that he raised Christ from death — but if it is true that the dead are not raised to life, then he did not raise Christ. 
Then Haggai gave the LORD's message to the people: “I will be with you — that is my promise.” 
One of them said, “Your Majesty, this woman and I live in the same house, and I gave birth to a baby boy at home while she was there. 
Your father Abraham rejoiced that he was to see the time of my coming; he saw it and was glad.” 
I asked the angel that had been speaking to me, “What do these horns mean?” : He answered, “They stand for the world powers that have scattered the people of Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem.” 
When the people heard the thunder and the trumpet blast and saw the lightning and the smoking mountain, they trembled with fear and stood a long way off. 
And that is how Saul, his three sons, and the young man died; all of Saul's men died that day. 
the people of Gebal, Ammon, and Amalek, : and of Philistia and Tyre. 
Praise the LORD, my protector! : He trains me for battle : and prepares me for war. 
Then they asked him, “Tell us, now, how did you come to write all this? Did Jeremiah dictate it to you?” 
Tobias then said to Raphael, “Azarias, my friend, I have already heard about Sarah's seven former husbands, and how each one dropped dead on his wedding night, even before he could get to bed. 
Again I looked, and I heard angels, thousands and millions of them! They stood round the throne, the four living creatures, and the elders, 
When things are going well for you, be glad, and when trouble comes, just remember: God sends both happiness and trouble; you never know what is going to happen next. 
For when the priesthood is changed, there also has to be a change in the law. 
And so, because of you, Zion will be ploughed like a field, Jerusalem will become a pile of ruins, and the Temple hill will become a forest.
Then he ordered the people to start marching round the city, with an advance guard going on ahead of the LORD's Covenant Box. 
The city of Ashkelon will see this and be afraid. The city of Gaza will see it and suffer great pain. So will Ekron, and her hopes will be shattered. Gaza will lose her king, and Ashkelon will be left deserted. 
Don't you realize that it is better for you to let one man die for the people, instead of having the whole nation destroyed?” 
The woman realized what had happened to her, so she came, trembling with fear, knelt at his feet, and told him the whole truth. 
Name your wages, and I will pay them.” 
If I have, as it were, fought “wild beasts” here in Ephesus simply from human motives, what have I gained? But if the dead are not raised to life, then, as the saying goes, “Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we will die.” 
After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding back the four winds so that no wind should blow on the earth or the sea or against any tree. 
Those who wept as they went out carrying the seed : will come back singing for joy, : as they bring in the harvest.
not knowing what it all meant; only Jonathan and David knew. 
He shall remove the crop and its contents and throw them away on the east side of the altar where the ashes are put. 
But since there are so many who boast for merely human reasons, I will do the same. 
Ezra said, “Praise the LORD, the God of our ancestors! He has made the emperor willing to honour in this way the Temple of the LORD in Jerusalem. 
After all the people had been baptized, Jesus also was baptized. While he was praying, heaven was opened, 
The Levites abandoned their pastures and other land and moved to Judah and Jerusalem, because King Jeroboam of Israel and his successors would not let them serve as priests of the LORD. 
A Canaanite woman who lived in that region came to him. “Son of David!” she cried out. “Have mercy on me, sir! My daughter has a demon and is in a terrible condition.” 
“If a fellow-Israelite sells himself or herself to you as a slave, you are to release them after they have served you for six years. When the seventh year comes, you must let them go free. 
The king said to Daniel (who was also called Belteshazzar), “Can you tell me what I dreamt and what it means?” 
I was made a servant of the gospel by God's special gift, which he gave me through the working of his power. 
King Jehoiakim collected a tax from the people in proportion to their wealth, in order to raise the amount needed to pay the tribute demanded by the king of Egypt. 
In order to show the many nations that I am holy, I will bring my people back from all the countries where their enemies live. 
So the LORD Almighty said, “I will punish them! Their young men will be killed in war; their children will die of starvation. 
So the Lord said to him, “Now then, you Pharisees clean the outside of your cup and plate, but inside you are full of violence and evil.  
Look! They are waiting to kill me; : cruel people are gathering against me. : It is not because of any sin or wrong I have done, 
In this powerful way the word of the Lord kept spreading and growing stronger. 
At all times we carry in our mortal bodies the death of Jesus, so that his life also may be seen in our bodies. 
Then one of the angels said, “Run for your lives! Don't look back and don't stop in the valley. Run to the hills, so that you won't be killed.” 
After that, Jehu himself went into the temple with Jonadab son of Rechab and said to the people there, “Make sure that only worshippers of Baal are present and that no worshipper of the LORD has come in.” 
“Which way did he go when he left?” the old prophet asked them. They showed him the road 
How fast the wings of an ostrich beat! : But no ostrich can fly like a stork. 
David's men delivered this message to Nabal in David's name. Then they waited there, 
Moses went and got the stick, as the LORD had commanded. 
Indeed, according to the Law almost everything is purified by blood, and sins are forgiven only if blood is poured out. 
“So tell my servant David that I, the LORD Almighty, say to him, ‘I took you from looking after sheep in the fields and made you the ruler of my people Israel. 
If you stay calm, you are wise, but if you have a hot temper, you only show how stupid you are. 
At the entrance of the Tent the Nazirite shall shave off his or her hair and put it on the fire on which the fellowship offering is being burnt. 
These are some of the descendants of Judah: Perez, Hezron, Carmi, Hur, and Shobal. 
From the Springs of Engedi all the way to the Springs of Eneglaim, there will be fishermen on the shore of the sea, and they will spread out their nets there to dry. There will be as many different kinds of fish there as there are in the Mediterranean Sea. 
which was the ninth year of the reign of Hoshea, the Assyrian emperor captured Samaria, took the Israelites to Assyria as prisoners, and settled some of them in the city of Halah, some near the River Habor in the district of Gozan, and some in the cities of Media. 
The light of the sun shines down on everything, : and everything is filled with the Lord's glory. 
In the sea are strange and marvellous creatures: : huge monsters and all kinds of living things. 
Then I continued, “The LORD has told you people who are left in Judah not to go to Egypt. And so I warn you now 
you will be destroyed — I warn you here and now. You will not live long in that land across the Jordan that you are about to occupy. 
“I will go with him,” Raphael said. “And don't worry; we will get there and back safely. The roads are not dangerous.” : “God be with you!” Tobit replied. Then he called Tobias and said to him, “My son, get everything ready that you need for the journey, so that the two of you can be on your way. May God and his angel watch over you both and bring you back to me safe and sound.” : Before leaving for Media, Tobias kissed his father and mother goodbye. Tobit said again, “Have a safe journey!” 
I want you to know that no one who is led by God's Spirit can say “A curse on Jesus!” and no one can confess “Jesus is Lord”, without being guided by the Holy Spirit. 
After this, Jesus appeared in a different manner to two of them while they were on their way to the country. 
Those who do not try to test him will find him; he will show himself to those who trust him. 
The LORD gave Moses 
The LORD destroyed all living beings on the earth — human beings, animals, and birds. The only ones left were Noah and those who were with him in the boat. 
or stare at the ground, but they will see nothing but trouble and darkness, terrifying darkness into which they are being driven.
So they answered, “We don't know where it came from.” 
until the emperor resettles you in a country much like your own, where there are vineyards to give wine and there is corn for making bread. 
and his history from beginning to end — is all recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel and Judah.
Tell them not to speak evil of anyone, but to be peaceful and friendly, and always to show a gentle attitude towards everyone. 
“Suppose a man marries a woman and later decides that he doesn't want her, because he finds something about her that he doesn't like. So he writes out divorce papers, gives them to her, and sends her away from his home. 
In this way you will win the respect of those who are not believers, and you will not have to depend on anyone for what you need. 
May their memory be honoured! May these whom we honour spring from the grave to new life in their descendants! 
and saved me from the threat of destruction. : And so I thank you and praise you. : O Lord, I praise you! 
May the glory of the LORD last for ever! : May the LORD be happy with what he has made! 
Then hold the two sticks end to end in your hand so that they look like one stick. 
I, the Philosopher, have been king over Israel in Jerusalem. 
On the morning of the third day there was thunder and lightning, a thick cloud appeared on the mountain, and a very loud trumpet blast was heard. All the people in the camp trembled with fear. 
The stem of the vine caught fire; : fire burnt up its branches and fruit. : The branches will never again be strong, : will never be royal sceptres. : This is a song of sorrow; it has been sung again and again.
Ahaz took the silver and gold from the Temple and the palace treasury and sent it as a present to the emperor. 
All the people heard him; they and especially the tax collectors were the ones who had obeyed God's righteous demands and had been baptized by John. 
Kenaz had two sons, Othniel and Seraiah. Othniel also had two sons, Hathath and Meonothai.  
Next he sent for the descendants of Aaron and for the Levites. 
“And now, my fellow-Israelites, I know that what you and your leaders did to Jesus was due to your ignorance. 
Jesus said to him, “You have already seen him, and he is the one who is talking with you now.” 
Although the people continued to offer sacrifices at other places of worship, they offered them only to the LORD. 
Dedicate these things in this way, and they will be completely holy, and anyone or anything that touches them will be harmed by the power of their holiness.  
Alcohol is for people who are dying, for those who are in misery. 
The people will wander through the land, discouraged and hungry. In their hunger and their anger they will curse their king and their God. They may look up to the sky 
You will laugh at violence and hunger : and not be afraid of wild animals. 
Pay, then, what you owe them; pay them your personal and property taxes, and show respect and honour for them all. 
He rescued Lot, a good man, who was distressed by the immoral conduct of lawless people. 
He batters me from every side. : He uproots my hope : and leaves me to wither and die. 
The leaders and the others said, “Yes, we are witnesses. May the LORD make your wife become like Rachel and Leah, who bore many children to Jacob. May you become rich in the clan of Ephrath and famous in Bethlehem. 
My children, do as I teach you and live at peace. Wisdom that is not expressed is like a treasure that has been hidden — both are useless. 
When Samuel was about to die, he gave assurances before the Lord and the anointed king that he had never taken anyone's property, not even so much as a pair of shoes, and no one contradicted him. 
Then the Israelites cried out to the LORD and said, “We have sinned against you, for we left you, our God, and worshipped the Baals.” 
Pity the people of Moab! The people who worshipped Chemosh have been destroyed, and their sons and daughters have been taken away as prisoners. 
Your anger against them burns in me too, LORD, and I can't hold it in any longer.” : Then the LORD said to me, “Pour out my anger on the children in the streets and on the gatherings of the young people. Husbands and wives will be taken away, and even the very old will not be spared. 
The leaders settled in Jerusalem, and the rest of the people drew lots to choose one family out of every ten to go and live in the holy city of Jerusalem, while the rest were to live in the other cities and towns. 
He shouted for someone to bring in the magicians, wizards, and astrologers. When they came in, the king said to them, “Anyone who can read this writing and tell me what it means will be dressed in robes of royal purple, wear a gold chain of honour round his neck, and be the third in power in the kingdom.” 
Yet now you are doing even more, Sovereign LORD; you have made promises about my descendants in the years to come. And you let a man see this, Sovereign LORD! 
I love your commands more than gold, : more than the finest gold. 
But Moses did not assign any land to the tribe of Levi. He told them that their possession was to be a share of the offerings to the LORD God of Israel.
As she offered them to him, he grabbed her and said, “Come to bed with me!” 
“If a man is caught having intercourse with another man's wife, both of them are to be put to death. In this way you will get rid of this evil. 
We were there when he was given honour and glory by God the Father, when the voice came to him from the Supreme Glory, saying, “This is my own dear Son, with whom I am pleased!” 
until I went into your Temple. : Then I understood what will happen to the wicked. 
People learn from one another, just as iron sharpens iron. 
Then the Lamb broke open the third seal; and I heard the third living creature say, “Come!” I looked, and there was a black horse. Its rider held a pair of scales in his hand. 
On the fifteenth day the Festival of Unleavened Bread begins, and for seven days you must not eat any bread made with yeast. 
Do you rulers ever give a just decision? : Do you judge everyone fairly? 
The Spirit is the guarantee that we shall receive what God has promised his people, and this assures us that God will give complete freedom to those who are his. Let us praise his glory! 
Why don't you tear the sky apart and come down? The mountains would see you and shake with fear. 
On the day Moses finished setting up the Tent of the LORD's presence, he anointed and dedicated the Tent and all its equipment, and the altar and all its equipment. 
The LORD will scatter you among other nations, where only a few of you will survive. 
Remember the terrible plagues that you saw with your own eyes, the miracles and wonders, and the great power and strength by which the LORD your God set you free. In the same way that he destroyed the Egyptians, he will destroy all these people that you now fear. 
As surely as I am the living LORD, the God of Israel, I swear that Moab and Ammon are going to be destroyed like Sodom and Gomorrah. They will become a place of salt pits and everlasting ruin, overgrown with weeds. Those of my people who survive will plunder them and take their land.” 
I look to the mountains; : where will my help come from? 
and his wife was given to the man that had been his best man at the wedding.Some time later Samson went to visit his wife during the wheat harvest and took her a young goat. He said to her father, “I want to go to my wife's room.” : But he wouldn't let him go in. 
The necessities of life are water, food, clothing, and a home where you can have privacy. 
During the time when Herod was king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah, who belonged to the priestly order of Abijah. His wife's name was Elizabeth; she also belonged to a priestly family. 
A sarcastic friend is like a wild horse that neighs no matter who tries to ride him. 
But the things that come out of the mouth come from the heart, and these are the things that make a person ritually unclean.  
Timothy, keep safe what has been entrusted to your care. Avoid the profane talk and foolish arguments of what some people wrongly call “Knowledge”. 
But as the scripture says, “Whoever wants to boast must boast about what the Lord has done.” 
Why look so worried, Achior? Don't you think the town can stand against me? I will carry out all my threats; you can be sure of that!” 
“The LORD will take you and your king away to a foreign land, where neither you nor your ancestors ever lived before; there you will serve gods made of wood and stone. 
But you, O Lord, did not punish your people in this way; instead, you showed them kindness. You sent them quails to eat, a rare, delicious food to satisfy their hunger. 
But I have nothing definite about him to write to the Emperor. So I have brought him here before you — and especially before you, King Agrippa! — so that, after investigating his case, I may have something to write. 
You drink wine by the bowlful and use the finest perfumes, but you do not mourn over the ruin of Israel. 
When Adam was 130 years old, he had a son who was like him, and he named him Seth. 
“How terrible for you Pharisees! You give God a tenth of the seasoning herbs, such as mint and rue and all the other herbs, but you neglect justice and love for God. These you should practise, without neglecting the others. 
And whenever the people who had evil spirits in them saw him, they would fall down before him and scream, “You are the Son of God!” 
If he washes the object and the spot disappears, he shall wash it again, and it will be ritually clean. 
The crowd that gathered round him was so large that he got into a boat and sat in it, while the crowd stood on the shore. 
I am like a slave standing before his master. How can I talk to you? I have no strength or breath left in me.” 
Any saddle or seat on which the man with the discharge sits is unclean. 
The people of Rhodes traded with you; people of many coastal lands gave you ivory and ebony in exchange for your goods. 
Then she added, “Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? Yet I have borne him a son in his old age.” 
Moses had given no land to the tribe of Levi. As the LORD had told Moses, they were to receive as their possession a share of the sacrifices burnt on the altar to the LORD God of Israel. 
Won't you look away long enough : for me to swallow my spittle? 
Runners took this proclamation to every province of the empire. It contained the instructions that on a single day, the thirteenth day of Adar, all Jews — young and old, women and children — were to be killed. They were to be slaughtered without mercy and their belongings were to be taken. 
So the Sovereign LORD sent me to tell Gog what he was saying to him: “Now while my people Israel live in security, you will set out  
Even those who are young grow weak; : young people can fall exhausted. 
In a large house there are dishes and bowls of all kinds: some are made of silver and gold, others of wood and clay; some are for special occasions, others for ordinary use. 
and she became pregnant and bore a son to Abraham when he was old. The boy was born at the time God had said he would be born. 
I am honest; I could reason with God; : he would declare me innocent once and for all. 
You have seen everything that the LORD your God has done to all these nations because of you. The LORD your God has been fighting for you. 
“Listen to this, you priests! Pay attention, people of Israel! Listen, you that belong to the royal family! You are supposed to judge with justice — so judgement will fall on you! You have become a trap at Mizpah, a net spread on Mount Tabor, 
Then the High Priest shall take some of the bull's blood and carry it into the Tent. 
At the sides of this room there were windows, and the walls were decorated with palm trees.
they realized that he was not the king of Israel, and they stopped their attack. 
to defeat the nations : and to punish the peoples; 
If it was killed by wild animals, the man is to bring the remains as evidence; he need not pay for what has been killed by wild animals. 
This is the land that the families of the tribe of Judah received as their possession. 
I swear I have never acted wickedly : and never tried to deceive others. 
“Mortal man, listen to what I tell you. Don't be rebellious like them. Open your mouth and eat what I am going to give you.” 
Paul went into the synagogue and during three months spoke boldly with the people, holding discussions with them and trying to convince them about the Kingdom of God. 
He saw that his disciples were straining at the oars, because they were rowing against the wind; so some time between three and six o'clock in the morning he came to them, walking on the water. He was going to pass them by,  
But the people who settled in Samaria continued to make their own idols, and they placed them in the shrines that the Israelites had built. Each different group made idols in the cities they were living in
Wait and be patient, and later you will be glad you did. 
Their words are full of deadly deceit; : wicked lies roll off their tongues, : and dangerous threats, like snake's poison, from their lips; 
Cover it with pure gold and put a gold border round it. 
For if the gospel we preach is hidden, it is hidden only from those who are being lost. 
Then Johanan and all the army officers took everybody left in Judah away to Egypt, together with all the people who had returned from the nations where they had been scattered
Just as a hunter fills a cage with birds, they have filled their houses with loot. That is why they are powerful and rich, 
It was faith that made the walls of Jericho fall down after the Israelites had marched round them for seven days. 
Many people have been ruined because of money, brought face to face with disaster. 
Moses and Aaron did what the LORD commanded. 
In those foreign lands they will not be able to make offerings of wine to the LORD, or bring their sacrifices to him. Their food will defile everyone who eats it, like food eaten at funerals. It will be used only to satisfy their hunger; none of it will be taken as an offering to the LORD's Temple. 
The master will cut him in pieces  and make him share the fate of the hypocrites. There he will cry and grind his teeth.
Offer a burnt offering to the LORD, a smell pleasing to him: one young bull, one ram, and seven one-year-old male lambs, all without any defects. 
Give according to what you have. The more you have, the more you should give. Even if you have only a little, be sure to give something. 
Mary stayed about three months with Elizabeth and then went back home. 
Jesus answered, “I will dip some bread in the sauce and give it to him; he is the man.” So he took a piece of bread, dipped it, and gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot. 
For if people do not recognize the meaning of the Lord's body when they eat the bread and drink from the cup, they bring judgement on themselves as they eat and drink. 
But the pagan places of worship were not destroyed, and the people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense there. 
How happy are those whose strength comes from you, : who are eager to make the pilgrimage to Mount Zion. 
“Today I am giving you the choice between a blessing and a curse — 
But Peter denied it again. : A little while later the bystanders accused Peter again, “You can't deny that you are one of them, because you, too, are from Galilee.” 
She speaks with a gentle wisdom. 
The LORD your God is supreme over all gods and over all powers. He is great and mighty, and he is to be feared. He does not show partiality, and he does not accept bribes. 
O LORD, don't punish me in your anger! 
If he has no brothers or uncles, then his nearest relative is to inherit it and hold it as his own property. The people of Israel are to observe this as a legal requirement, just as I, the LORD, have commanded you.” 
When you fast, you make yourselves suffer; you bow your heads low like a blade of grass, and spread out sackcloth and ashes to lie on. Is that what you call fasting? Do you think I will be pleased with that? 
and will disgrace myself even more. You may think I am nothing, but those women will think highly of me!” 
LORD, I know you will never stop being merciful to me. : Your love and loyalty will always keep me safe. 
From the very beginning of their history the people of Israel and the people of Judah have displeased me and made me angry by what they have done. 
It was square and folded double, 22 centimetres long and 22 centimetres wide. 
and shouted, “Let me die with the Philistines!” He pushed with all his might, and the building fell down on the five kings and everyone else. Samson killed more people at his death than he had killed during his life. 
To fasten your attention on Wisdom is to gain perfect understanding. If you look for her, you will soon find peace of mind, 
How beautiful you are, my love; : how your eyes shine with love! 
Second in rank was Jehohanan, with 280,000 soldiers, 
There is one body and one Spirit, just as there is one hope to which God has called you. 
Jehu started out again, and on his way he was met by Jonadab son of Rechab. Jehu greeted him and said, “You and I think alike. Will you support me?” : “I will,” Jonadab answered. : “Give me your hand, then,” Jehu replied. They clasped hands, and Jehu helped him up into the chariot, 
Moses and Aaron were his priests, : and Samuel was one who prayed to him; : they called to the LORD, and he answered them. 
Elijah got up, ate and drank, and the food gave him enough strength to walk forty days to Sinai, the holy mountain. 
The LORD's angel answered, “Your wife must be sure to do everything that I have told her. 
In every city and town in Judah, he built pagan places of worship, where incense was to be burnt to foreign gods. In this way he brought on himself the anger of the LORD, the God of his ancestors. 
Everyone will know that I protect Israel and that they are my people. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken. 
(Not even his brothers believed in him.) 
When King Zedekiah and all his soldiers saw what was happening, they tried to escape from the city during the night. They left by way of the royal garden, went through the gateway connecting the two walls, and escaped in the direction of the Jordan Valley. 
No one could distinguish between the joyful shouts and the crying, because the noise they made was so loud that it could be heard far and wide.
After this, Abram had a vision and heard the LORD say to him, “Do not be afraid, Abram. I will shield you from danger and give you a great reward.” 
They made an inner courtyard for the priests, and also an outer courtyard. The doors in the gates between the courtyards were covered with bronze. 
LORD, forgive your people Israel, whom you rescued from Egypt. Forgive us and do not hold us responsible for the murder of an innocent person.’ 
Let our officials stay in Jerusalem and take charge of the matter. Then let anyone who has a foreign wife come at a set time, together with the leaders and the judges of his city. In this way God's anger over this situation will be turned away.” 
When the people saw that the king would not listen to them, they shouted, “Down with David and his family! What have they ever done for us? People of Israel, let's go home! Let Rehoboam look out for himself!” : So the people of Israel rebelled, 
I take pleasure in your laws; : your commands I will not forget. 
Then I will judge your people fairly, and be worthy of my father's throne. My actions will be acceptable. 
May the LORD bless you and take care of you; 
I study your instructions; : I examine your teachings. 
A fool quoting a wise saying reminds you of a drunk trying to pick a thorn out of his hand. 
He went a little farther on, threw himself on the ground, and prayed that, if possible, he might not have to go through that time of suffering. 
Joshua captured the whole land, as the LORD had commanded Moses. Joshua gave it to the Israelites as their own and divided it into portions, one for each tribe. : So the people rested from war.
They even worship their nets and offer sacrifices to them, because their nets provide them with the best of everything. 
We say this because we have confidence in God through Christ. 
They pay me back evil for good : and hatred for love. 
Then the Ammonite army prepared for battle and made camp in Gilead. The people of Israel came together and camped at Mizpah in Gilead. 
One day Dinah, the daughter of Jacob and Leah, went to visit some of the Canaanite women. 
even though as apostles of Christ we could have made demands on you. But we were gentle when we were with you, like a mother taking care of her children. 
Finally, build up your strength in union with the Lord and by means of his mighty power. 
“If two men are having a fight and the wife of one tries to help her husband by grabbing hold of the other man's genitals, 
They made the apostles stand before them and asked them, “How did you do this? What power have you got or whose name did you use?” 
He said to them, “You yourselves know very well that a Jew is not allowed by his religion to visit or associate with Gentiles. But God has shown me that I must not consider any person ritually unclean or defiled. 
and then said, “Order the gates to be opened for me. I am on my way to do what we were talking about.” Then they ordered the young men to open the gates for her, 
You will enjoy her prosperity, : like a child at its mother's breast. 
When Moses told the Israelites what the LORD had said, they mourned bitterly. 
Be honest, and you will succeed in whatever you do. 
“Who, then, is a faithful and wise servant? It is the one that his master has placed in charge of the other servants to give them their food at the proper time.  
He named the dome “Sky”. Evening passed and morning came — that was the second day. 
One of them, named Caiaphas, who was High Priest that year, said, “What fools you are! 
That the LORD is announcing to all the earth: : “Tell the people of Jerusalem : That the LORD is coming to save you, : Bringing with him the people he has rescued.” 
They were all amazed at the way he taught, because he spoke with authority. 
Keep on loving one another as Christian brothers and sisters. 
“From Artaxerxes the emperor to Ezra the priest, scholar in the Law of the God of Heaven. 
They brought to the front of the Tent everything that Moses had commanded, and the whole community assembled there to worship the LORD. 
The meaning of every prophetic vision will be hidden from you; it will be like a sealed scroll. If you take it to someone who knows how to read and ask him to read it to you, he will say he can't because it is sealed. 
Merari had two sons: Mahli and Mushi. These are the clans of Levi with their descendants. 
Do you consider it a small matter that the God of Israel has set you apart from the rest of the community, so that you can approach him, perform your service in the LORD's Tent, and minister to the community and serve them? 
God brings down the proud : and saves the humble. 
David replied to Gad, “I am in a desperate situation! But I don't want to be punished by people. Let the LORD himself be the one to punish me, because he is merciful.” 
They will sow their crops in peace. Their vines will bear grapes, the earth will produce crops, and there will be plenty of rain. I will give all these blessings to the people of my nation who survive. 
But someone may ask what there will be to eat during the seventh year, when no fields are sown and no crops gathered. 
Do not be afraid of death's decree. Remember that it came to those before you and will come to those after you. 
The LORD will destroy the homes of arrogant men, but he will protect a widow's property. 
All of us should eat and drink and enjoy what we have worked for. It is God's gift. 
Arrows stick through their bodies; : the shiny points drip with their blood, : and terror grips their hearts. 
Anyone who does not know God is simply foolish. Such people look at the good things around them and still fail to see the living God. They have studied the things he made, but they have not recognized the one who made them. 
In all my travelling with the people of Israel I never asked any of the leaders that I appointed why they had not built me a temple made of cedar.’ 
The three sons of Zeruiah were there: Joab, Abishai, and Asahel. Asahel, who could run as fast as a wild deer, 
You yourselves used to be in the darkness, but since you have become the Lord's people, you are in the light. So you must live like people who belong to the light, 
Issachar had four sons: Tola, Puah, Jashub, and Shimron. 
“Then lie down on your left side, and I will place on you the guilt of the nation of Israel. For 390 days you will stay there and suffer because of their guilt. I have sentenced you to one day for each year their punishment will last. 
If you stay out of arguments, you will not sin so much, because a hot temper gets them started. 
He will be the one to build a temple for me, and I will make sure that his dynasty continues for ever. 
Or suppose that, without looking, anyone throws a stone that kills someone whom he did not intend to hurt and who was not his enemy. 
Joseph got up, took the child and his mother, and left during the night for Egypt, 
Have you forgotten the LORD who made you, : who stretched out the heavens : and laid the earth's foundations? : Why should you live in constant fear : of the fury of those who oppress you, : of those who are ready to destroy you? : Their fury can no longer touch you. 
The Assyrian emperor took the Israelites to Assyria as prisoners and settled some of them in the city of Halah, some near the River Habor in the district of Gozan, and some in the cities of Media. 
Those who live good lives find peace and rest in death. 
What you get from me is better than the finest gold, : better than the purest silver. 
The stone which the builders rejected as worthless : turned out to be the most important of all. 
“It takes only a little yeast to make the whole batch of dough rise,” as they say. 
so he sent for a clever woman who lived in Tekoa. When she arrived, he said to her, “Pretend that you are in mourning; put on your mourning clothes, and don't comb your hair. Act like a woman who has been in mourning for a long time. 
The Edomites repeated, “We refuse!” and they marched out with a powerful army to attack the people of Israel. 
He made two winged creatures of hammered gold, 
twenty years old or older who are fit for military service. 
Does this mean that by this faith we do away with the Law? No, not at all; instead, we uphold the Law.
But they must obey me and observe the Sabbath as a sacred day. They must not carry any load through the gates of Jerusalem on that day, for if they do, I will set the gates of Jerusalem on fire. Fire will burn down the palaces of Jerusalem, and no one will be able to put it out.”
and died at the age of 895. 
The branches of the trees are withered and broken, and women gather them for firewood. Because the people have understood nothing, God their Creator will not pity them or show them any mercy. 
So he travelled all over Galilee, preaching in the synagogues and driving out demons. 
Then Jesus sent the people away, got into a boat, and went to the territory of Magadan.
He does not keep on rebuking; : he is not angry for ever. 
If such a person gives you something, it won't do any good; it won't be as valuable as he thinks it is.  
and Jonathan said to David, “May the LORD God of Israel be our witness! At this time tomorrow and on the following day I will question my father. If his attitude towards you is good, I will send you word. 
But you are not to take anything that is to be destroyed; if you do, you will bring trouble and destruction on the Israelite camp. 
If you are lazy, you will never get what you are after, but if you work hard, you will get a fortune. 
The meat from them belongs to you, like the breast and the right hind leg of the special offering. 
On that day the songs in the palace will become cries of mourning. There will be dead bodies everywhere. They will be thrown out in silence.” 
But tell me, why have you left them and come to us? You will be safe here. There's no need to be afraid! We have spared your life tonight, and you are in no danger for the future. 
I am the God who appeared to you at Bethel, where you dedicated a stone as a memorial by pouring olive oil on it and where you made a vow to me. Now get ready to go back to the land where you were born.’ ” 
Suddenly there was a violent earthquake, which shook the prison to its foundations. At once all the doors opened, and the chains fell off all the prisoners. 
What the Law could not do, because human nature was weak, God did. He condemned sin in human nature by sending his own Son, who came with a nature like sinful human nature, to do away with sin. 
The returned exiles accepted the plan, so Ezra the priest appointed men from among the heads of the clans and recorded their names. On the first day of the tenth month they began their investigation, 
They must thank the LORD for his constant love, : for the wonderful things he did for them. 
The believers who were scattered went everywhere, preaching the message. 
Paul had decided to sail on past Ephesus, so as not to lose any time in the province of Asia. He was in a hurry to arrive in Jerusalem by the day of Pentecost, if at all possible. 
So they sent a message to Joseph: “Before our father died, 
Heber had three sons: Japhlet, Shomer, and Hotham; and one daughter, Shua. 
All the silver and gold of the world is mine. 
No evil will ever come to those who fears the Lord; however often danger comes, the Lord will come to their rescue. 
He turns fresh water into salt water, : and he turns his anger on the nations. 
The priest shall present it at the altar, wring its neck, and burn its head on the altar. Its blood shall be drained out against the side of the altar. 
Ever since I went to the king to speak for you, he has treated them cruelly. And you have done nothing to help them!”
See how wicked people think up evil; : they plan trouble and practise deception. 
What did you go out to see? A man dressed up in fancy clothes? People who dress like that and live in luxury are found in palaces!  
I look to the LORD for help at all times, : and he rescues me from danger. 
Your proverbs are as useless as ashes; : your arguments crumble like clay. 
then I will remove you from the land that I gave you, and I will abandon this Temple that I have consecrated as the place where I am to be worshipped. People everywhere will ridicule it and treat it with contempt. 
Jerusalem, your immoral actions have defiled you. Although I tried to purify you, you remained defiled. You will not be pure again until you have felt the full force of my anger. 
The Lord our God is putting us to the test, just as he tested our ancestors, and we should be thankful for that. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “these men have given their hearts to idols and are letting idols lead them into sin. Do they think I will give them an answer? 
“When my sanity returned, my honour, my majesty, and the glory of my kingdom were given back to me. My officials and my noblemen welcomed me, and I was given back my royal power, with even greater honour than before. 
Then you and all the other Israelites will be able to follow them and kill them as they retreat. 
“When the LORD saw this, he was angry : and rejected his sons and daughters. 
and stay with him for a while, until your brother's anger cools down 
But Israel is saved by the LORD, : and her victory lasts for ever; : her people will never be disgraced.’ ” 
You didn't buy incense for me : or satisfy me with the fat of your animals. : Instead you burdened me with your sins; : you wore me out with the wrongs you committed. 
Violence produces more wickedness. Nothing of theirs will remain, nothing of their wealth, their splendour, or their glory. 
You may eat locusts, crickets, or grasshoppers. 
Hezekiah praised the Levites for their skill in conducting the worship of the LORD. : After the seven days during which they offered sacrifices in praise of the LORD, the God of their ancestors, 
King Hiram sent him ships under the command of his own officers and crewed by experienced sailors. They sailed with Solomon's officers to the land of Ophir and brought back to Solomon more than fifteen tonnes of gold.
From today on I will make people everywhere afraid of you. Everyone will tremble with fear at the mention of your name.’ 
“How terrible for you, teachers of the Law and Pharisees! You hypocrites! You give to God a tenth even of the seasoning herbs, such as mint, dill, and cumin, but you neglect to obey the really important teachings of the Law, such as justice and mercy and honesty. These you should practise, without neglecting the others.  
Then Nathan went home. : The LORD caused the child that Uriah's wife had borne to David to become very ill. 
From one human being he created all races on earth and made them live throughout the whole earth. He himself fixed beforehand the exact times and the limits of the places where they would live. 
Happy are you who are hungry now; :   you will be filled! :   Happy are you who weep now; :   you will laugh! 
King David was settled in his palace, and the LORD kept him safe from all his enemies. 
He judged the nation in accordance with the Law of the Lord, and the Lord protected Israel. 
Good music and good wine — an emerald set in gold. 
Adonikam — 666 
What I do to you will shock many nations. When I swing my sword, kings will shudder with fright. On the day you fall, all of them will tremble in fear for their own lives.” 
We cannot fully know his greatness : or count the number of his years. 
“In the time of Noah I promised : never again to flood the earth. : Now I promise not to be angry with you again; : I will not reprimand or punish you. 
For whether or not a man is circumcised means nothing; what matters is to obey God's commandments. 
Evil people are trapped in their own sins, while honest people are happy and free. 
He shall kill the bull there, and the Aaronite priests shall present the blood to the LORD and then throw it against all four sides of the altar which is at the entrance of the Tent. 
I harden my body with blows and bring it under complete control, to keep myself from being disqualified after having called others to the contest.
“Then, if anyone says to you, ‘Look, here is the Messiah!’ or, ‘Look, there he is!’ — do not believe him.  
The LORD said to Moses, “Assemble seventy respected men who are recognized as leaders of the people, bring them to me at the Tent of my presence, and tell them to stand there beside you. 
Daniel was brought at once into the king's presence, and the king said to him, “Are you Daniel, that Jewish exile whom my father the king brought here from Judah? 
When the creatures stopped, the wheels stopped; and when the creatures flew, the wheels went with them, because the creatures controlled them. 
Jeroboam appointed priests of his own to serve at the pagan places of worship and to worship demons and the idols he made in the form of bull calves. 
You will open the eyes of the blind : and set free those who sit in dark prisons. 
A man named Simon lived there, who for some time had astounded the Samaritans with his magic. He claimed that he was someone great, 
I will always praise you, : because you teach me your laws. 
Judah and Israel paid for your goods with wheat, honey, olive oil, and spices. 
and brought them to the Temple. I took them into the room of the disciples of the prophet Hanan son of Igdaliah. This room was above the room of Maaseiah son of Shallum, an important official in the Temple, and near the rooms of the other officials. 
When Daniel's enemies observed him praying to God, 
So he got up, went to Eli, and said, “You called me, and here I am.” : But Eli answered, “My son, I didn't call you; go back to bed.” 
So the poor, like wild donkeys, : search for food in the dry wilderness; : nowhere else can they find food for their children. 
We will pay for the food we eat and the water we drink. All we want to do is to pass through your country, 
But Joab and Abishai started out after Abner, and at sunset they came to the hill of Ammah, which is to the east of Giah on the road to the wilderness of Gibeon. 
“Don't handle this,” “Don't taste that,” “Don't touch the other”? 
People of Jerusalem, the time to rebuild the city walls is coming. At that time your territory will be enlarged. 
Then he took the body down, wrapped it in a linen sheet, and placed it in a tomb which had been dug out of solid rock and which had never been used. 
When they returned to their father, he asked, “Why have you come back so early today?” 
they are descended from the famous Hebrew ancestors; and Christ, as a human being, belongs to their race. May God, who rules over all, be praised for ever! Amen. 
From Paul, who by God's will is an apostle of Christ Jesus, and from our brother Timothy — 
Following their advice, he joined King Joram of Israel in a war against King Hazael of Syria. The armies clashed at Ramoth in Gilead, and Joram was wounded in battle. 
You are the one I was talking about long ago, when I announced through my servants, the prophets of Israel, that in days to come I would bring someone to attack Israel.” The Sovereign LORD has spoken. 
The family line from Shem to Abram is as follows: Shem, Arpachshad, Shelah, 
King Jeroboam of Israel fortified the town of Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim and lived there for a while. Then he left and fortified the town of Penuel. 
LORD, I wash my hands to show that I am innocent : and march in worship round your altar. 
He himself was not the light; he came to tell about the light. 
“Praise the LORD who has given his people peace, as he promised he would. He has kept all the generous promises he made through his servant Moses. 
Do not have intercourse with your granddaughter; that would be a disgrace to you. 
He seized the territory of Cilicia, killing everyone who resisted him, and went as far as the southern borders of the land of Japheth, near Arabia. 
All things are under your care, and there is no other god to whom you must justify your decisions. 
God's people will be free from worries, and their homes peaceful and safe. 
Then he asked the people, “What does our Law allow us to do on the Sabbath? To help or to harm? To save someone's life or to destroy it?” : But they did not say a thing. 
Then in their trouble they called to the LORD, : and he saved them from their distress. 
Clan of Elam: Mattaniah, Zechariah, Jehiel, Abdi, Jeremoth, and Elijah 
I gave my people life, and I will not continue to accuse them or be angry with them for ever.  
but this authority has been given to you by the Lord Most High. He will examine what you have done and what you plan to do. 
He set free the man they wanted, the one who had been put in prison for riot and murder, and he handed Jesus over for them to do as they wished. 
In this way they stirred up the people, the elders, and the teachers of the Law. They seized Stephen and took him before the Council. 
On that same day, the 24th of the month, the LORD gave Haggai a second message 
Because of our sins he was handed over to die, and he was raised to life in order to put us right with God.
But I will sing praises to you; : I will offer you a sacrifice : and do what I have promised. : Salvation comes from the LORD!” 
When your people ask you to tell them what this means, 
and the surrounding villages, as far south-west as the town of Baalath. These are the records which they kept of their families and of the places where they lived. 
You remember that Theudas appeared some time ago, claiming to be somebody great, and about 400 men joined him. But he was killed, all his followers were scattered, and his movement died out. 
Israel is suffering oppression; she has lost land that was rightfully hers, because she insisted on going for help to those who had none to give.  
That night God came to Balaam and said, “If these men have come to ask you to go with them, get ready to go, but do only what I tell you.” 
He wished he could fill himself with the bean pods the pigs ate, but no one gave him anything to eat.  
In the rear of the Temple an inner room was built, where the LORD's Covenant Box was to be placed. 
The people kept quiet, just as King Hezekiah had told them to; they did not say a word. 
He is trying to teach us letter by letter, line by line, lesson by lesson.” 
When land is sold, the right of the original owner to buy it back must be recognized. 
“I stayed on the mountain forty days and nights, as I did the first time. The LORD listened to me once more and agreed not to destroy you. 
Nathan told David everything that God had revealed to him. 
Menahem son of Gadi went from Tirzah to Samaria, assassinated Shallum, and succeeded him as king. 
Then Balak sent a larger number of leaders, who were more important than the first. 
They say, “The LORD does not see us; : the God of Israel does not notice.” 
They smashed all the wooden panels : with their axes and sledgehammers. 
Then he took a cup, gave thanks to God, and gave it to them. “Drink it, all of you,” he said; 
So I decided to take Wisdom home to live with me, because I knew that she would give me good advice and encourage me in times of trouble and grief. 
Then Judith said to them, “My friends, please follow my advice. In the morning, take this head and hang it on the town wall. 
After that, he may help his fellow-Levites in performing their duties in the Tent, but he must not perform any service by himself. This is how you are to regulate the duties of the Levites.”
All of you are people who belong to the light, who belong to the day. We do not belong to the night or to the darkness. 
The music of harps and of human voices, of players of the flute and the trumpet, will never be heard in you again! No workman in any trade will ever be found in you again; and the sound of the millstone will be heard no more! 
The rest of the clan of Kohath was assigned ten cities from the territories of Ephraim, Dan, and West Manasseh. 
When Jacob had finished giving instructions to his sons, he lay down again and died.
Assyria can never save us, and war horses cannot protect us. We will never again say to our idols that they are our God. O LORD, you show mercy to those who have no one else to turn to.” 
“We have come to live in this country, because in the land of Canaan the famine is so severe that there is no pasture for our flocks. Please give us permission to live in the region of Goshen.” 
We are sure that we live in union with God and that he lives in union with us, because he has given us his Spirit. 
The rest of the offering belongs to the priests; it is very holy, since it is taken from the food offered to the LORD. 
There was another battle with the Philistines at Gob, and Elhanan son of Jair from Bethlehem killed Goliath from Gath, whose spear had a shaft as thick as the bar on a weaver's loom. 
Shallum son of Hallohesh, ruler of the other half of the Jerusalem District, built the next section. (His daughters helped with the work.) 
“If, however, anyone uses a weapon of iron or stone or wood to kill someone, he is guilty of murder and is to be put to death. 
Their whole nation was cursed from the start, and though you had not punished them for their sins, it was not because you were afraid of anyone. 
So I started to leave Jerusalem and go to the territory of Benjamin to take possession of my share of the family property. 
When you give to the poor, it is like lending to the LORD, and the LORD will pay you back. 
That is why we always pray for you. We ask our God to make you worthy of the life he has called you to live. May he fulfil by his power all your desire for goodness and complete your work of faith. 
Whenever the spirit attacks him, it throws him to the ground, and he foams at the mouth, grits his teeth, and becomes stiff all over. I asked your disciples to drive the spirit out, but they could not.” 
Moses had already assigned the land east of the Jordan to the other two and a half tribes. (The descendants of Joseph were divided into two tribes: Manasseh and Ephraim.) However, Moses gave the Levites no portion of the territory. Instead, they received cities to live in, with fields for their cattle and flocks. 
To the east and to the west of this area which contains the Temple, the priests' land, the Levites' land, and the city, the remaining land belongs to the ruling prince. 
This is how the city wall was rebuilt. The High Priest Eliashib and his fellow-priests rebuilt the Sheep Gate, dedicated it, and put the gates in place. They dedicated the wall as far as the Tower of the Hundred and the Tower of Hananel. 
As a matter of fact, my brothers and sisters, I could not talk to you as I talk to people who have the Spirit; I had to talk to you as though you belonged to this world, as children in the Christian faith. 
All the skilled women brought fine linen thread and thread of blue, purple, and red wool, which they had made. 
My brothers and sisters, consider yourselves fortunate when all kinds of trials come your way, 
Don't let wine tempt you, even though it is rich red, though it sparkles in the cup, and it goes down smoothly. 
As Jesus sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him in private. “Tell us when all this will be,” they asked, “and what will happen to show that it is the time for your coming and the end of the age.” 
This saying made the Jewish authorities all the more determined to kill him; not only had he broken the Sabbath law, but he had said that God was his own Father and in this way had made himself equal with God. 
“Now, Lord, you have kept your promise, : and you may let your servant go in peace. 
The ten horns are ten kings who will rule that empire. Then another king will appear; he will be very different from the earlier ones and will overthrow three kings. 
Moses answered, “We will all go, including our children and our old people. We will take our sons and daughters, our sheep and goats, and our cattle, because we must hold a festival to honour the LORD.” 
So Ruth went out to the fields and walked behind the workers, picking up the corn which they left. It so happened that she was in a field that belonged to Boaz. 
The servant woman saw him there and began to repeat to the bystanders, “He is one of them!” 
The Lord created medicines from the earth, and a sensible person will not hesitate to use them. 
“There was another giant eagle with huge wings and thick plumage. And now the vine sent its roots towards him and turned its leaves towards him, in the hope that he would give it more water than there was in the garden where it was growing.  
When Jesus arrived, he found that Lazarus had been buried four days before. 
Please forgive their sin; but if you won't, then remove my name from the book in which you have written the names of your people.” 
Jesus said to them, “Moses wrote this law for you because you are so hard to teach.  
He answered, “Bring me a cow, a goat, and a ram, each of them three years old, and a dove and a pigeon.” 
God had already decided that through Jesus Christ he would make us his sons and daughters — this was his pleasure and purpose. 
The cows started off on the road to Beth Shemesh and headed straight towards it, without turning off the road. They were mooing as they went. The five Philistine kings followed them as far as the border of Beth Shemesh. 
It was while he was king that the LORD first sent King Rezin of Syria and King Pekah of Israel to attack Judah. 
For Christ himself has brought us peace by making Jews and Gentiles one people. With his own body he broke down the wall that separated them and kept them enemies. 
Just as shorts fit tightly round the waist, so I intended all the people of Israel and Judah to hold tightly to me. I did this so that they would be my people and would bring praise and honour to my name; but they would not obey me.” 
Instead, all that is left is to wait in fear for the coming Judgement and the fierce fire which will destroy those who oppose God! 
I told myself that you ought to speak, : that you older men should share your wisdom. 
There are other sheep which belong to me that are not in this sheepfold. I must bring them, too; they will listen to my voice, and they will become  one flock with one shepherd. 
Now stand up straight : and answer the questions I ask you. 
But the responsibility for mixing the spices belonged to the priests. 
Today the enemy are in the town of Nob, and there they are shaking their fists at Mount Zion, at the city of Jerusalem. 
He sent Zadok, Nathan, Benaiah, and the royal bodyguard to escort him. They made him ride on the king's mule, 
and tell them what the Sovereign LORD is saying to them: : “You women are doomed! You sew magic wristbands for everyone and make magic scarves for everyone to wear on their heads, so that they can have power over other people's lives. You want to possess the power of life and death over my people and to use it for your own benefit. 
Remember your people, whom you chose for yourself long ago, : whom you brought out of slavery to be your own tribe. : Remember Mount Zion, where once you lived. 
Take Aaron and his son Eleazar up Mount Hor, 
and was successful in all he did, because the LORD was with him. 
Never forget these commands that I am giving you today. 
Offer incense and a grain offering, as fine as you can afford.  
But Jesus refused to answer a single word, with the result that the Governor was greatly surprised. 
Happy are those whom you choose, : whom you bring to live in your sanctuary. : We shall be satisfied with the good things of your house, : the blessings of your sacred Temple. 
The LORD says, : “The wise should not boast of their wisdom, : nor the strong of their strength, : nor the rich of their wealth. 
In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord. He was sitting on his throne, high and exalted, and his robe filled the whole Temple. 
And so Solomon tried to kill Jeroboam, but he escaped to King Shishak of Egypt and stayed there until Solomon's death. 
As they stood there asking him questions, he straightened himself up and said to them, “Whichever one of you has committed no sin may throw the first stone at her.”  
Someone else will say, “Food is for the stomach, and the stomach is for food.” Yes; but God will put an end to both. The body is not to be used for sexual immorality, but to serve the Lord; and the Lord provides for the body. 
“If you have ears, then, listen to what the Spirit says to the churches! 
When he heard me scream, he ran outside, leaving his robe beside me.” 
If someone dedicates part of his land to the LORD, the price shall be fixed according to the amount of seed it takes to sow it, at the rate of ten pieces of silver for every twenty kilogrammes of barley. 
Those who swear by the idols of Samaria, who say, ‘By the god of Dan,’ or, ‘By the god of Beersheba’ — those people will fall and not rise again.”
“Sir,” replied the official, “come with me before my child dies.” 
Then all the leaders from the town nearest the place where the murdered person was found are to wash their hands over the cow 
My thoughts will be clear; : I will speak words of wisdom. 
Peter answered even more strongly, “I will never say that, even if I have to die with you!” : And all the other disciples said the same thing. 
Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, “You have brought trouble on me; now the Canaanites, the Perizzites, and everybody else in the land will hate me. I haven't many men; if they all band together against me and attack me, our whole family will be destroyed.” 
Moza the father of Binea, Binea of Rephaiah, Rephaiah of Eleasah, and Eleasah of Azel. 
“Your Majesty, what these men have done is wrong. They have put Jeremiah in the well, where he is sure to die of starvation, since there is no more food in the city.” 
Even though King Jehoshaphat lived in Jerusalem, he travelled regularly among the people, from Beersheba in the south to the edge of the hill country of Ephraim in the north, in order to call the people back to the LORD, the God of their ancestors. 
Why did you do it?” 
The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron in Egypt
and said in a loud voice, “Stand up straight on your feet!” The man jumped up and started walking around. 
The Philistines captured him and put his eyes out. They took him to Gaza, chained him with bronze chains, and put him to work grinding at the mill in the prison. 
The tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh went to attack the city of Bethel, at that time called Luz. The LORD helped them. They sent spies to the city, 
But whoever listens to me will have security. He will be safe, with no reason to be afraid.”
You, LORD, are God, and you have made this wonderful promise to me. 
She answered, “Let your brother Adonijah have Abishag as his wife.” 
I hear my lover's voice. : He comes running over the mountains, : racing across the hills to me. 
Don't be envious of evil people, and don't try to make friends with them. 
O Jerusalem, beloved Jerusalem, what can I say? : How can I comfort you? No one has ever suffered like this. : Your disaster is boundless as the ocean; there is no possible hope. 
May righteousness flourish in his lifetime, : and may prosperity last as long as the moon gives light. 
“Sir, if you listen to our advice, your troops will not suffer heavy losses. 
Don't put your trust in human leaders; : no human being can save you. 
The tables where they sit are all covered with vomit, and not a clean spot is left. 
Malchiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah. 
The basic needs for life are these: : water, fire, iron, and salt, : flour, honey, and milk, : wine, clothing, and oil. 
When our lives are over, : do we really care whether our children are happy? 
You and your soldiers are to march round the city once a day for six days. 
They complained against Moses and Aaron, and said, “It would have been better to die in Egypt or even here in the wilderness! 
If you hear the bugle, gather round me. Our God will fight for us.” 
Then he shall take a handful of the flour and oil, and the incense on it, and burn it on the altar as a token that all of it has been offered to the LORD. The smell of this offering is pleasing to the LORD. 
There in the plains of Moab across the Jordan from Jericho the LORD gave Moses 
went to war against five other kings: Bera of Sodom, Birsha of Gomorrah, Shinab of Admah, Shemeber of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (or Zoar). 
He said to the Levites, “You are the leaders of the Levite clans. Purify yourselves and your fellow-Levites, so that you can bring the Covenant Box of the LORD God of Israel to the place I have prepared for it. 
and he spoke to him again when Josiah's son Jehoiakim was king. After that, the LORD spoke to him many times, until the eleventh year of the reign of Zedekiah son of Josiah. In the fifth month of that year the people of Jerusalem were taken into exile. 
Later he married Maacah, the daughter of Absalom, and they had four sons: Abijah, Attai, Ziza, and Shelomith. 
But what the scripture says about being put right with God through faith is this: “You are not to ask yourself, Who will go up into heaven?” (that is, to bring Christ down). 
Also an offering of two kilogrammes of flour is to be made every morning, together with one litre of olive oil for mixing with the flour. The rules for this offering to the LORD are to be in force for ever. 
Mahlon and Chilion also died, and Naomi was left all alone, without husband or sons. 
Everyone will be humiliated and disgraced. Do not forgive them, LORD! 
After this they went on to fight the Canaanites who lived in the hill country, in the foothills, and in the dry country to the south. 
Blessings of corn and flowers, : Blessings of ancient mountains, : Delightful things from everlasting hills. : May these blessings rest on the head of Joseph, : On the brow of the one set apart from his brothers. 
“The tree is the king of Egypt and all his people. Not even the trees in Eden were so tall and impressive. But now, like the trees of Eden, it will go down to the world of the dead and join the ungodly and those killed in battle. I have spoken,” says the Sovereign LORD.
She answered, “By the living LORD your God I swear that I haven't got any bread. All I have is a handful of flour in a bowl and a drop of olive oil in a jar. I came here to gather some firewood to take back home and prepare what little I have for my son and me. That will be our last meal, and then we will starve to death.” 
I praise the LORD, because he guides me, : and in the night my conscience warns me. 
Jahath, a descendant of Izhar through Shelomith; 
He defeated the Philistines, and raided their settlements, from the smallest village to the largest city, including Gaza and its surrounding territory. 
“You are righteous, O Lord! : You are merciful in all you do, : faithful in all your ways. : You are the judge of this world. 
After John had been put in prison, Jesus went to Galilee and preached the Good News from God. 
This is shown by the fact that God sets another day, which is called “Today”. Many years later he spoke of it through David in the scripture already quoted: : “If you hear God's voice today, : do not be stubborn.” 
Elisha turned to Gehazi and said, “Hurry! Take my stick and go. Don't stop to greet anyone you meet, and if anyone greets you, don't take time to answer. Go straight to the house and hold my stick over the boy.” 
From each tribe of Israel send a thousand men to war.” 
Daniel replied, “Your Majesty, there is no wizard, magician, fortune teller, or astrologer who can tell you that. 
You brought a famous king down to sickness and death. 
The tribe of Asher: the clans of Imnah, Ishvi, and Beriah. 
All of creation waits with eager longing for God to reveal his children. 
I am here on earth for just a little while; : do not hide your commands from me. 
she must do everything that she vowed or promised unless her father raises an objection when he hears about it. 
Isaac called Jacob, greeted him, and said to him, “Don't marry a Canaanite woman. 
The prince is to come in when the people come, and leave when they leave. 
the constellations, and the cycles of years. 
People would talk in front of me about all the good deeds Tobiah had done and would tell him everything I said. And he kept sending me letters to try to frighten me.
You will be handed over by your parents, your brothers, your relatives, and your friends; and some of you will be put to death.  
I did not know who he would be, but I came baptizing with water in order to make him known to the people of Israel.” 
of palm trees and winged creatures. Palm trees alternated with creatures, one following the other, all the way round the room. Each creature had two faces
Then I weighed out the silver, the gold, and the utensils which the emperor, his advisers and officials, and the people of Israel had given to be used in the Temple, and I gave it to the priests. 
As for you, Pashhur, you and all your family will also be captured and taken off to Babylonia. There you will die and be buried, along with all your friends to whom you have told so many lies.’ ” 
Ruth bowed down with her face touching the ground, and said to Boaz, “Why should you be so concerned about me? Why should you be so kind to a foreigner?” 
O Lord, my Father and Master of my life, do not leave me at the mercy of my own words; don't let them cause my downfall. 
But even then, when they are still in the land of their enemies, I will not completely abandon or destroy them. That would put an end to my covenant with them, and I am the LORD their God. 
and I will be angry and kill you in war. Your wives will become widows, and your children will be fatherless. 
Make these poles of acacia wood and cover them with gold. 
All the others are concerned only with their own affairs, not with the cause of Jesus Christ. 
carnelians and other jewels to be set in the ephod of the High Priest and in his breastpiece. 
“Then the man went out and met one of his fellow-servants who owed him a few pounds. He grabbed him and started choking him. ‘Pay back what you owe me!’ he said.  
God is indeed good to Israel, : to those who have pure hearts. 
Anyone who touches them is unclean and must wash his clothes and have a bath; he remains unclean until evening. 
You learnt of God's grace from Epaphras, our dear fellow-servant, who is Christ's faithful worker on our behalf. 
What pay do I get, then? It is the privilege of preaching the Good News without charging for it, without claiming my rights in my work for the gospel. 
“Whatever is hidden away will be brought out into the open, and whatever is covered up will be found and brought to light. 
Don't keep company with female musicians; they will trick you. 
He will keep his covenant for ever, : his promises for a thousand generations. 
But if I do them, even though you do not believe me, you should at least believe my deeds, in order that you may know once and for all that the Father is in me and that I am in the Father.” 
When he arrived at Caesarea, he went to Jerusalem and greeted the church, and then went to Antioch. 
Your riches have rotted away, and your clothes have been eaten by moths. 
And if you speak only to your friends, have you done anything out of the ordinary? Even the pagans do that!  
So the cook brought the choice piece of the leg and placed it before Saul. Samuel said, “Look, here is the piece that was kept for you. Eat it. I saved it for you to eat at this time with the people I invited.” : So Saul ate with Samuel that day. 
If you fear the Lord, you will accept his correction. He will bless those who get up early in the morning to pray. 
Its area included Helkath, Hali, Beten, Achshaph, 
They oppose me, even though I love them : and have prayed for them. 
“Do you understand these things?” Jesus asked them. : “Yes,” they answered. 
But I, the LORD, will protect you, and you will not be handed over to those you fear. 
and together they went to the Temple, accompanied by the priests and the Levites and all the rest of the people, rich and poor alike. Before them all, the king read aloud the whole book of the covenant, which had been found in the Temple. 
Son, if you become wise, I will be very happy. 
When David heard what Rizpah had done, 
“I, the LORD, have called you and given you power : to see that justice is done on earth. : Through you I will make a covenant with all peoples; : through you I will bring light to the nations. 
The LORD spoke to me. 
To Timothy, my dear son: : May God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord give you grace, mercy, and peace. 
And Jesus concluded, “So those who are last will be first, and those who are first will be last.” 
Then Saul ordered his officials, “Find me a woman who is a medium, and I will go and consult her.” : “There is one in Endor,” they answered. 
Then seven other ears of corn sprouted, thin and scorched by the desert wind, 
He spoke to them from the pillar of cloud; : they obeyed the laws and commands that he gave them. 
They arrested the apostles and put them in the public jail. 
Peter turned round and saw behind him that other disciple, whom Jesus loved — the one who had leaned close to Jesus at the meal and had asked, “Lord, who is going to betray you?” 
For even the Son of Man did not come to be served; he came to serve and to give his life to redeem many people.” 
Happy are those who remain faithful under trials, because when they succeed in passing such a test, they will receive as their reward the life which God has promised to those who love him. 
“At that time I earnestly prayed, 
So King Solomon gave orders to Benaiah, who went out and killed Adonijah. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “I have broken the arm of the king of Egypt. No one has bandaged it or put it in a sling so that it could heal and be strong enough to hold a sword again. 
On his robe and on his thigh was written the name: “King of kings and Lord of lords”. 
Then the two prophets heard a loud voice say to them from heaven, “Come up here!” As their enemies watched, they went up into heaven in a cloud. 
Ezer was the ancestor of the clans of Bilhan, Zaavan, and Akan. 
He churns up the sea like boiling water : and makes it bubble like a pot of oil. 
But God's mercy is so abundant, and his love for us is so great, 
They utter empty words and make false promises and useless treaties. Justice has become injustice, growing like poisonous weeds in a ploughed field. 
All these peoples are the descendants of Noah, nation by nation, according to their different lines of descent. After the flood all the nations of the earth were descended from the sons of Noah.
So the leaders of the gathering said, “There are no more women in the tribe of Benjamin. What shall we do to provide wives for the men who are left? 
Even as animals they are not attractive enough to make anyone want them. God himself passed them by when he put his approval and blessing on the rest of creation.
I will send you down to the world of the dead to join the people who lived in ancient times. I will make you stay in that underground world among eternal ruins, keeping company with the dead. As a result you will never again be inhabited and take your place in the land of the living. 
The LORD's spirit lifted me up and took me into the inner courtyard, where I saw that the Temple was filled with the glory of the LORD. 
Those who are sure of themselves do not talk all the time. People who stay calm have real insight. 
The Sovereign LORD said, “You are doomed! Doomed! You did all that evil, and then 
Like an enemy, the Lord has destroyed Israel; : He has left her forts and palaces in ruins. : He has brought on the people of Judah unending sorrow. 
because Wisdom, who gave shape to everything that exists, was my teacher. : The spirit of Wisdom is intelligent and holy. It is of one nature but reveals itself in many ways. It is not made of any material substance, and it moves about freely. It is clear, clean, and confident; it cannot be harmed. It loves what is good. It is sharp and unconquerable, 
The LORD said to Moses, 
(That place was named the Valley of Eshcol because of the bunch of grapes the Israelites cut off there.) 
Soldiers from Arvad guarded your walls, and men from Gamad guarded your towers. They hung their shields on your walls. They are the men who made you beautiful. 
He who comes from God listens to God's words. You, however, are not from God, and that is why you will not listen.” 
“Everyone must use honest weights and measures
and set it on fire. They will burn it down, together with the houses where people have made me angry by burning incense to Baal on the rooftops and by pouring out wine offerings to other gods. 
The Lord chose Moses out of the whole human race and consecrated him because of his loyalty and humility. 
I will send foreigners to destroy Babylonia like a wind that blows straw away. When that day of destruction comes, they will attack from every side and leave the land bare. 
As the scripture says: : “Those who were not told about him will see, : and those who have not heard will understand.” 
Do not spread lies about anyone, and when someone is on trial for his life, speak out if your testimony can help him. I am the LORD. 
Where did John's right to baptize come from: was it from God or from human beings?” : They started to argue among themselves, “What shall we say? If we answer, ‘From God,’ he will say to us, ‘Why, then, did you not believe John?’ 
Babylonia will be looted, and those who loot it will take everything they want. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
Wake up, LORD, and help us! : Use your power and save us; : use it as you did in ancient times. : It was you that cut the sea monster Rahab to pieces. 
“Like a lion coming out of the thick woods along the Jordan up to the green pasture land, I, the LORD, will come and make the Babylonians run away suddenly from their city. Then the leader I choose will rule the nation. Who can be compared to me? Who would dare challenge me? What ruler could oppose me? 
When he came back the third time, he said to them, “Are you still sleeping and resting? Enough! The hour has come! Look, the Son of Man is now being handed over to the power of sinners.  
Do not reject me now that I am old; : do not abandon me now that I am feeble. 
And that water has been pure ever since, just as Elisha said it would be. 
It's all over. This is the end. You are finished. 
And concerning Jezebel, the LORD says that dogs will eat her body in the city of Jezreel. 
the following for the work on the Temple: more than 170 tonnes of gold, over 340 tonnes of silver, almost 620 tonnes of bronze, and more than 3,400 tonnes of iron. 
Share your food with the hungry and open your homes to the homeless poor. Give clothes to those who have nothing to wear, and do not refuse to help your own relatives. 
May those who jeer at me : be dismayed by their defeat. 
Be grateful for the good things that the LORD your God has given you and your family; and let the Levites and the foreigners who live among you join in the celebration. 
“We have heard the news,” say the people of Jerusalem, “and our hands hang limp; we are seized by anguish and pain like a woman in labour. 
In the Jewish quarter of every city in the empire the Jews organized themselves to attack anyone who tried to harm them. People everywhere were afraid of them, and no one could stand against them. 
He said to them, “I have wanted so much to eat this Passover meal with you before I suffer!  
“I will abandon my people until they have suffered enough for their sins and come looking for me. Perhaps in their suffering they will try to find me.”
Jesus answered, “This teaching does not apply to everyone, but only to those to whom God has given it.  
Dead bodies are scattered everywhere, : like piles of manure on the fields, : like corn cut and left behind by the reapers, : corn that no one gathers. : This is what the LORD has told me to say.” 
Women of Zion, come and see King Solomon. : He is wearing the crown that his mother placed on his head : on his wedding day, : on the day of his gladness and joy.
“Mortal man,” he said, “this is what the people in the city of Tyre are cheering about. They shout, ‘Jerusalem is shattered! Her commercial power is gone! She won't be our rival any more!’ 
Can't you see it is God who has done this? : He has set a trap to catch me. 
Joseph was a man who always did what was right, but he did not want to disgrace Mary publicly; so he made plans to break the engagement privately. 
He waited seven days for Samuel, as Samuel had instructed him to do, but Samuel still had not come to Gilgal. The people began to desert Saul, 
listen to their prayers. In heaven, where you live, hear them and do what they ask you to do, so that all the peoples of the world may know you and obey you, as your people Israel do. Then they will know that this Temple I have built is where you are to be worshipped. 
deer, wild sheep, wild goats, or antelopes — 
For the sake of my relatives and friends : I say to Jerusalem, “Peace be with you!” 
Why are you so far away, O LORD? : Why do you hide yourself when we are in trouble? 
But because they conducted the worship of idols for the people of Israel and in this way led the people into sin, I, the Sovereign LORD, solemnly swear that they must be punished. 
My people are deceived by prophets who promise peace to those who pay them, but threaten war for those who don't. To these prophets the LORD says, 
You must remember, my brothers and sisters, that many times I have planned to visit you, but something has always kept me from doing so. I want to win converts among you also, as I have among other Gentiles. 
He allowed Tobiah to use a large room that was intended only for storing offerings of corn and incense, the equipment used in the Temple, the offerings for the priests, and the tithes of corn, wine, and olive oil given to the Levites, to the temple musicians, and to the temple guards. 
You have done right to punish us; : you have been faithful, even though we have sinned. 
The first angel went and poured out his bowl on the earth. Terrible and painful sores appeared on those who had the mark of the beast and on those who had worshipped its image. 
God was performing unusual miracles through Paul. 
The following kings ruled the land of Edom one after the other, in the time before there were any kings in Israel: : Bela son of Beor from Dinhabah : Johab son of Zerah from Bozrah : Husham from the region of Teman : Hadad son of Bedad from Avith (he defeated the Midianites in a battle in the country of Moab) : Samlah from Masrekah : Shaul from Rehoboth-on-the-River : Baal Hanan son of Achbor : Hadad from Pau (his wife was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred and granddaughter of Mezahab) 
Asher and his sons: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, Beriah, and their sister Serah. Beriah's sons were Heber and Malchiel. 
A good person who gives in to someone who is evil reminds you of a polluted spring or a poisoned well. 
Even the wild animals will honour me; : jackals and ostriches will praise me : when I make rivers flow in the desert : to give water to my chosen people. 
For this reason we never become discouraged. Even though our physical being is gradually decaying, yet our spiritual being is renewed day after day. 
Two years later he died 
I will give them a king like my servant David to be their one shepherd, and he will take care of them. 
The LORD told me to say to his people, “When someone falls down, doesn't he get back up? If someone misses the road, doesn't he turn back? 
That is exactly what happened. When Gideon got up early the next morning, he squeezed the wool and wrung enough dew out of it to fill a bowl with water. 
A person can never redeem himself; : he cannot pay God the price for his life, 
Look away from them and leave them alone; : let them enjoy their hard life — if they can. 
So the cave was opened, and the kings of Jerusalem, Hebron, Jarmuth, Lachish, and Eglon were brought out 
Not even their mothers remember them now; : they are eaten by worms and destroyed like fallen trees. 
or on any piece of linen or wool cloth or on leather or anything made of leather, 
Jesus answered, “What if one of you has a sheep and it falls into a deep hole on the Sabbath? Will you not take hold of it and lift it out?  
Others said, “He is the Messiah!” : But others said, “The Messiah will not come from Galilee! 
Unless you are determined in your fear of the Lord, your house is going to come down on you. 
There are winds that were created to bring punishment, : fierce enough to move mountains. : In times of judgement, they unleash their strength : and calm the anger of their maker. 
The total number of the people of Israel enrolled in the divisions, group by group, was 603,550. 
This calls for wisdom. Whoever is intelligent can work out the meaning of the number of the beast, because the number stands for a human name. Its number is 666.
My father and mother may abandon me, : but the LORD will take care of me. 
The LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, says, “When I restore the people to their land, they will once again say in the land of Judah and in its towns, : ‘May the LORD bless the sacred hill of Jerusalem, : the holy place where he lives.’ 
At that very moment there was a violent earthquake; a tenth of the city was destroyed, and 7,000 people were killed. The rest of the people were terrified and praised the greatness of the God of heaven. 
Just as clay is in the potter's hands for him to shape as he pleases, so we are in the hands of our Creator for him to do with as he wishes. 
“Listen to everything that I, the LORD, have said to you. Do not pray to other gods; do not even mention their names. 
His servants went to her at Carmel and said to her, “David sent us to take you to him to be his wife.” 
“How terrible for you, blind guides! You teach, ‘If someone swears by the Temple, he isn't bound by his vow; but if he swears by the gold in the Temple, he is bound.’  
They were also responsible for the posts, bases, pegs, and ropes for the outer court. 
“How ignorant you are! How stupid! : You are completely corrupt, : and justice has disappeared from the world. 
If they are foolish enough to trust in evil, : then evil will be their reward. 
Then the Israelites cried out to the Lord their God for help. They had lost their courage, for with the enemy all round them there was no way to escape. 
You took Saul's kingdom, and now the LORD is punishing you for murdering so many of Saul's family. The LORD has given the kingdom to your son Absalom, and you are ruined, you murderer!” 
But God let no one oppress them; : to protect them, he warned the kings
Once, during a funeral, one of those bands was seen, and the people threw the corpse into Elisha's tomb and ran off. As soon as the body came into contact with Elisha's bones, the man came back to life and stood up. 
The LORD frustrates the purposes of the nations; : he keeps them from carrying out their plans. 
Bolts of lightning will strike right on target, as if the Lord had made a bow out of the clouds and was shooting arrows. 
He does not punish us as we deserve : or repay us according to our sins and wrongs. 
For David himself says in the book of Psalms, :   ‘The Lord said to my Lord: :   Sit here on my right 
Examine me, O God, and know my mind; : test me, and discover my thoughts. 
Keep a close watch over your daughter if she is determined to have her own way. If you don't, she may make a fool of you in front of your enemies. You will be a constant joke to everyone in town, a public disgrace. Make sure that her room has no windows or any place where she can look out to the entrance of the house.  
You study the Scriptures, because you think that in them you will find eternal life. And these very Scriptures speak about me!  
He does not need an investigation : to remove leaders and replace them with others. 
Keep your secrets to yourself and be very careful, for you are always walking on dangerous ground. 
“King Manasseh has done these disgusting things, things far worse than what the Canaanites did; and with his idols he has led the people of Judah into sin. 
They sang the LORD's praises, repeating the refrain: : “The LORD is good, and his love for Israel is eternal.” : Everyone shouted with all his might, praising the LORD, because the work on the foundation of the Temple had been started. 
I will tell you what Wisdom is, and how she came to be. I will not keep anything secret. I will trace her history from the beginning and make knowledge of her open to all. I will not ignore any part of the truth. 
Asleep on my bed, night after night : I dreamt of the one I love; : I was looking for him, but couldn't find him. 
Our young men are forced to grind corn like slaves; : boys go staggering under heavy loads of wood. 
My sufferings, LORD, are terrible indeed; : keep me alive, as you have promised. 
Jesus said in a loud voice, “Whoever believes in me believes not only in me but also in him who sent me.  
The outside wall of these rooms was 2.5 metres thick; there was one door into the rooms on the north side of the Temple, and one into those on the south side. I saw that there was a terrace 2.5 metres wide all round the Temple; it was three metres above the ground and it was level with the foundation of the rooms by the temple walls. Between the terrace and the buildings used by the priests there was an open space ten metres across, along the sides of the Temple. 
These are the groups to which the descendants of Aaron belong. Aaron had four sons: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
“When you pray, do not be like the hypocrites! They love to stand up and pray in the houses of worship and on the street corners, so that everyone will see them. I assure you, they have already been paid in full.  
Now we must make a solemn promise to our God that we will send these women and their children away. We will do what you and the others who honour God's commands advise us to do. We will do what God's Law demands. 
I was hungry and you fed me, thirsty and you gave me a drink; I was a stranger and you received me in your homes,  
The LORD gave Jehoshaphat firm control over the kingdom of Judah, and all the people brought him gifts, so that he became wealthy and highly honoured. 
If an unbeliever invites you to a meal and you decide to go, eat what is set before you, without asking any questions because of your conscience. 
God revealed to these prophets that their work was not for their own benefit, but for yours, as they spoke about those things which you have now heard from the messengers who announced the Good News by the power of the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. These are things which even the angels would like to understand. 
Human beings can tame and have tamed all other creatures — wild animals and birds, reptiles and fish. 
Jeroboam died and was buried in the royal tombs, and his son Zechariah succeeded him as king.
But the father called his servants. ‘Hurry!’ he said. ‘Bring the best robe and put it on him. Put a ring on his finger and shoes on his feet.  
Although he will not let his daughter know it, a father will lie awake at night worrying about her. If she is young, he worries that she might not get married. If she is already married, he worries about her happiness. 
The LORD says, “The time is coming when I will punish the people of Egypt, Judah, Edom, Ammon, Moab, and the desert people, who have their hair cut short. All these people are circumcised, but have not kept the covenant it symbolizes. None of these people and none of the people of Israel have kept my covenant.”People of Israel, listen to the message that the LORD has for you. 
On the day God is angry and punishes, : it is the wicked who are always spared. 
I have not spoken in secret : or kept my purpose hidden. : I did not require the people of Israel : to look for me in a desolate waste. : I am the LORD, and I speak the truth; : I make known what is right.” 
You lived in Eden, the garden of God, and wore gems of every kind: rubies and diamonds; topaz, beryl, carnelian, and jasper; sapphires, emeralds, and garnets. You had ornaments of gold. They were made for you on the day you were created. 
The sky disappeared like a scroll being rolled up, and every mountain and island was moved from its place. 
If we say that we have not sinned, we make God out to be a liar, and his word is not in us.
from your place in the far north, leading a large, powerful army of soldiers from many nations, all of them on horseback. 
So I will startle them with one unexpected blow after another. Those who are wise will turn out to be fools, and all their cleverness will be useless.” 
Humtah, Hebron, and Zior: nine cities, along with the towns round them. 
When he had finished, she said, “I will also bring water for your camels and let them have all they want.” 
Catch the foxes, the little foxes, : before they ruin our vineyard in bloom. 
make it a barren, joyless night. 
I know how stubborn and rebellious they are. They have rebelled against the LORD during my lifetime, and they will rebel even more after I am dead. 
Moses called Bezalel, Oholiab, and all the other skilled men to whom the LORD had given ability and who were willing to help, and Moses told them to start working. 
Remember that all these things will happen before the people now living have all died.  
The LORD alone is God; : God alone is our defence. 
Am I not a free man? Am I not an apostle? Haven't I seen Jesus our Lord? And aren't you the result of my work for the Lord? 
Praise the LORD, my soul, : and do not forget how kind he is. 
And they said, “We don't need any witnesses! We ourselves have heard what he said!”
“No one can break into a strong man's house and take away his belongings unless he first ties up the strong man; then he can plunder his house. 
Joseph continued, “Now all of you, and you too, Benjamin, can see that I am really Joseph. 
Water began to close over me, and I thought death was near. 
The sun will be darkened, : and the moon will turn red as blood : before the great and terrible day of the LORD comes. 
People went out to see what had happened, and when they came to Jesus, they found the man from whom the demons had gone out sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in his right mind; and they were all afraid. 
This includes everyone, because there is no difference between Jews and Gentiles; God is the same Lord of all and richly blesses all who call to him. 
They have left the straight path and have lost their way; they have followed the path taken by Balaam son of Beor, who loved the money he would get for doing wrong 
Tomorrow morning you and your followers take firepans, put live coals and incense on them, and take them to the altar. Then we will see which of us the LORD has chosen. You Levites are the ones who have gone too far!” 
Treat them as you would a fellow-Israelite, and love them as you love yourselves. Remember that you were once foreigners in the land of Egypt. I am the LORD your God. 
Then he took a young plant from the land of Israel and planted it in a fertile field, where there was always water to make it grow. 
Be careful what you say and protect your life. A careless talker destroys himself. 
He will not break off a bent reed, : or put out a flickering lamp. : He will persist until he causes justice to triumph, 
I will take them out of foreign countries, gather them together, and bring them back to their own land. I will lead them back to the mountains and the streams of Israel and will feed them in pleasant pastures. 
The jailer called for a light, rushed in, and fell trembling at the feet of Paul and Silas. 
Wait until the week's marriage celebrations are over, and I will give you Rachel, if you will work for me another seven years.” 
Zadok the priest and his fellow-priests, however, were in charge of the worship of the LORD at the place of worship in Gibeon. 
For the scripture says, ‘God will order his angels to take good care of you.’ 
and when someone swears by heaven, he is swearing by God's throne and by him who sits on it. 
Balak clenched his fists in anger and said to Balaam, “I called you to curse my enemies, but three times now you have blessed them instead. 
The people complained to Moses and asked, “What are we going to drink?” 
He comes with the brightness of lightning; : light flashes from his hand, : there where his power is hidden. 
‘If you are willing to go on living in this land, then I will build you up and not tear you down; I will plant you and not pull you up. The destruction I brought on you has caused me great sorrow. 
The LORD Almighty says: “When that day comes, I will break the yoke that is round their necks and remove their chains, and they will no longer be the slaves of foreigners. 
And the Holy Spirit also gives us his witness. First he says
Then Elijah said to Elisha, “Now stay here; the LORD has ordered me to go to the River Jordan.” : But Elisha answered, “I swear by my loyalty to the living LORD and to you that I will not leave you.” So they went on, 
So that disciple moved closer to Jesus' side and asked, “Who is it, Lord?” 
Such wickedness should be punished by death. 
Don't you know? Haven't you heard? : The LORD is the everlasting God; : he created all the world. : He never grows tired or weary. : No one understands his thoughts. 
Then he washed the internal organs and the hind legs and burnt them on the altar on top of the rest of the burnt offering. 
Come and present your case in court; : let the defendants consult one another. : Who predicted long ago what would happen? : Was it not I, the LORD, the God who saves his people? : There is no other god. 
One day spent in your Temple : is better than a thousand anywhere else; : I would rather stand at the gate of the house of my God : than live in the homes of the wicked. 
He brings destruction on the mighty and their strongholds. 
But because the king had taken Sarai, the LORD sent terrible diseases on him and on the people of his palace. 
They are always rebelling against God, always lying, always refusing to listen to the LORD's teachings. 
Everyone will praise his great and majestic name. : Holy is he! 
“I command that throughout my empire all the Israelite people, priests, and Levites that so desire be permitted to go with you to Jerusalem. 
“How is it that you can now see?” they asked him. 
You, LORD, have made us cry out, : as a woman in labour cries out in pain. 
The scripture says, “Because of you Jews, the Gentiles speak evil of God.” 
Make two winged creatures of hammered gold, 
Moses said to Aaron, “Tell the whole community to come and stand before the LORD, because he has heard their complaints.” 
Your wise men are put to shame; they are confused and trapped. They have rejected my words; what wisdom have they got now? 
“Go in peace,” Elisha said. And Naaman left. : He had gone only a short distance, 
It will be a place where flocks, herds, and animals of every kind will lie down. Owls will live among its ruins and hoot from the windows. Crows will caw on the doorsteps. The cedar wood of her buildings will be stripped away. 
Forgive us the wrongs we have done, :   as we forgive the wrongs that others have done to us. 
because night always follows day, but evil never overcomes Wisdom.
It was our ancestor Jacob who gave us this well; he and his sons and his flocks all drank from it. You don't claim to be greater than Jacob, do you?” 
Some time later the armies of Moab and Ammon, together with their allies, the Meunites, invaded Judah. 
A day is coming when the new king from the royal line of David will be a symbol to the nations. They will gather in his royal city and give him honour. 
To replace them, King Rehoboam made bronze shields and entrusted them to the officers responsible for guarding the palace gates. 
The LORD says, “The people of Israel have sinned again and again, and for this I will certainly punish them. They sell into slavery honest people who cannot pay their debts, the poor who cannot repay even the price of a pair of sandals. 
They fastened the two gold cords to the two rings 
Stay with the Lord; never abandon him, and you will be prosperous at the end of your days. 
More than anything else, however, we want to please him, whether in our home here or there. 
It must be torn down, and its stones, its wood, and all its plaster must be carried out of the city to an unclean place. 
You can get horses ready for battle, but it is the LORD who gives victory.
He was outstanding among “The Thirty”, but not as famous as “The Three”. David put him in charge of his bodyguard. 
They paid this attention to him because for such a long time he had astonished them with his magic. 
You would even throw dice for orphan slaves : and make yourselves rich off your closest friends! 
so they went in; but they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. 
He doesn't worship the idols of the Israelites or eat the sacrifices offered at forbidden shrines. He doesn't seduce another man's wife or have intercourse with a woman during her period. 
When many nations gather, I will catch you in my net and let them drag the net ashore. 
Go to the peak of Mount Pisgah and look to the north and to the south, to the east and to the west. Look carefully at what you see, because you will never go across the Jordan. 
“You have saved your life by coming down here to see our general. Some of us will take you to his headquarters and present you to him. 
They broke all the laws of the LORD their God and made two metal bull calves to worship; they also made an image of the goddess Asherah, worshipped the stars, and served the god Baal. 
Before they know it, they are cut down like weeds; : in his fierce anger God will blow them away : while they are still living. 
Miners dig iron out of the ground : And melt copper out of the stones. 
Save me from those evil people; : rescue me from those murderers! 
“We place our destiny in the hands of the Lord, not in human hands, because his mercy is as great as his majesty.”
That day the Israelites defeated the Philistines, fighting all the way from Michmash to Aijalon. By this time the Israelites were very weak with hunger, 
Avvim, Parah, Ophrah, 
Ezer son of Jeshua, ruler of Mizpah, built the next section in front of the armoury, as far as the place where the wall turns; 
You will rise and take pity on Zion; : the time has come to have mercy on her; : this is the right time. 
“Now go to the town of Zarephath, near Sidon, and stay there. I have commanded a widow who lives there to feed you.” 
The king of Sodom said to Abram, “Keep the loot, but give me back all my people.” 
The LORD made the king stubborn, and he would not let them go. 
Hezekiah died, and his son Manasseh succeeded him as king.
Joseph said, “Oh, no! I would never do that! Only the one who had the cup will be my slave. The rest of you may go back safe and sound to your father.” 
He sinned against the LORD more than any of his predecessors. 
They have come to destroy Babylon; : its soldiers are captured, : and their bows are broken. : I am a God who punishes evil, : and I will treat Babylon as it deserves. 
The LORD says, “Just as a thief is disgraced when caught, so all you people of Israel will be disgraced — your kings and officials, your priests and prophets. 
What comes into being from nothing will return to nothing; so it will be with the godless, doomed to extinction. 
After that, he moved on south to the hill country east of the city of Bethel and set up his camp between Bethel on the west and Ai on the east. There also he built an altar and worshipped the LORD. 
and used the money to buy the potter's field, as the Lord had commanded me.” 
I would like to keep him here with me, while I am in prison for the gospel's sake, so that he could help me in your place. 
In this way he shall purify the house with the bird's blood, the fresh water, the live bird, the cedar wood, the hyssop, and the red cord. 
When they arrived in Jerusalem, Jesus went to the Temple and began to drive out all those who were buying and selling. He overturned the tables of the moneychangers and the stools of those who sold pigeons, 
The greatest in the Kingdom of heaven is the one who humbles himself and becomes like this child.  
They were anointed and ordained as priests, 
“I have used figures of speech to tell you these things. But the time will come when I will not use figures of speech, but will speak to you plainly about the Father.  
They were trying to frighten us into stopping work. I prayed, “But now, God, make me strong!” 
This prayer made in faith will heal the sick; the Lord will restore them to health, and the sins they have committed will be forgiven. 
On the mountain east of Jerusalem he built a place to worship Chemosh, the disgusting god of Moab, and a place to worship Molech, the disgusting god of Ammon. 
so he sent some men to arrest him. They saw the group of prophets dancing and shouting, with Samuel as their leader. Then the Spirit of God took control of Saul's men, and they also began to dance and shout. 
Is anyone more blind than my servant, : more deaf than the messenger I send? 
This regulation applies to all your descendants, no matter where they live. 
When Jesus noticed the crowd round him, he ordered his disciples to go to the other side of the lake. 
I will begin my work of destruction in my own city. Do they think they will go unpunished? No, they will be punished, for I am going to send war on all the people on earth. I, the LORD Almighty, have spoken. 
Everything you say, I have heard before. : I understand it all; I know as much as you do. : I'm not your inferior. 
The LORD spoke again. 
The man who drove the goat into the desert to Azazel must wash his clothes and have a bath before he comes back into camp. 
As soon as Jesus came up out of the water, he saw heaven opening and the Spirit coming down on him like a dove. 
Good and evil alike take place at his command. 
Moses prayed earnestly to the LORD, and the LORD showed him a piece of wood, which he threw into the water; and the water became fit to drink. : There the LORD gave them laws to live by, and there he also tested them. 
That is why I had to send Timothy. I could not bear it any longer, so I sent him to find out about your faith. Surely it could not be that the Devil had tempted you and all our work had been for nothing! 
Whoever listens to the word but does not put it into practice is like a man who looks in a mirror and sees himself as he is. 
What, then, can we boast about? Nothing! And what is the reason for this? Is it that we obey the Law? No, but that we believe. 
This is the time when the LORD will rescue Zion and take vengeance on her enemies. 
Put the turban on him and tie on it the sacred sign of dedication engraved ‘Dedicated to the LORD’. 
When orphans and widows pour out their prayers, he does not ignore them. 
For the scripture says: : “As surely as I am the living God, says the Lord, : everyone will kneel before me, : and everyone will confess that I am God.” 
Do you not believe, Philip, that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I have spoken to you,” Jesus said to his disciples, “do not come from me. The Father, who remains in me, does his own work.  
You used your power and your position : to take over the whole land. 
from your Temple in Jerusalem, : where kings bring gifts to you. 
Listen! The noisy crowds round the wells : are telling of the LORD's victories, : the victories of Israel's people! : Then the LORD's people marched down from their cities. 
Do not complain against one another, my brothers and sisters, so that God will not judge you. The Judge is near, ready to appear. 
and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed Jesus. 
Each of them will be like a shelter from the wind and a place to hide from storms. They will be like streams flowing in a desert, like the shadow of a giant rock in a barren land. 
but then that nation turns from its evil, I will not do what I said I would. 
Huram placed these two bronze columns in front of the entrance of the Temple: the one on the south side was named Jachin, and the one on the north was named Boaz.  
The Israelites in the city now came down to join the battle. So the men of Ai found themselves completely surrounded by Israelites, and they were all killed. No one got away, and no one lived through it 
“I, the LORD, command you to do what is just and right. Protect the person who is being cheated from the one who is cheating him. Do not ill-treat or oppress foreigners, orphans, or widows; and do not kill innocent people in this holy place. 
Then King David sent for Zadok, Nathan, and Benaiah. When they came in, 
That country has many rivers and rich treasures, but its time is up, and its thread of life is cut. 
A poor person and his oppressor have this in common — the LORD gave eyes to both of them. 
To Jews and Gentiles alike I gave solemn warning that they should turn from their sins to God and believe in our Lord Jesus. 
In the year that Evilmerodach became king of Babylonia, he showed kindness to King Jehoiachin of Judah by releasing him from prison. This happened on the 25th day of the twelfth month of the 37th year after Jehoiachin had been taken away as a prisoner. 
The bread belongs to Aaron and his descendants, and they shall eat it in a holy place, because this is a very holy part of the food offered to the LORD for the priests. 
If you again refuse to let them go, 
and all the crops sown along the banks of the Nile will dry up and be blown away. 
The priests and the Levites have been assigned duties to perform in the Temple. Workers with every kind of skill are eager to help you, and all the people and their leaders are at your command.”
We are only dust and ashes; what have we got to be proud of? Our body decays even while we are alive.  
If you remain in me and my words remain in you, then you will ask for anything you wish, and you shall have it.  
Then he shall burn all its fat on the altar, just as he burns the fat of the animals killed for the fellowship offerings. In this way the priest shall offer the sacrifice for the sin of the ruler, and he will be forgiven. 
The territory belonging to the families of the tribe of Benjamin was the first to be assigned. Their land lay between the tribes of Judah and Joseph. 
Then the Devil, who deceived them, was thrown into the lake of fire and sulphur, where the beast and the false prophet had already been thrown; and they will be tormented day and night for ever and ever. 
They stood up to their enemies and fought them off. 
After three and a half days a life-giving breath came from God and entered them, and they stood up; and all who saw them were terrified. 
Jesus said to them, “The right time for me has not yet come. Any time is right for you.  
All day long they talk about me and make their plans. 
I will turn him in a new direction and lead him out of the far north until he comes to the mountains of Israel. 
And crowds of people came in from the towns around Jerusalem, bringing those who were ill or who had evil spirits in them; and they were all healed. 
The Benjaminites said, “We've beaten them just as we did before.” : But the Israelites had planned to retreat and lead them away from the city on to the roads. 
Such will be the spread of evil that many people's love will grow cold.  
“Therefore, as I am the living God — this is the word of the Sovereign LORD — because you defiled my Temple with all the evil, disgusting things you did, I will cut you down without mercy. 
But a woman jealous of another woman causes heartache and grief; her tongue lashes out at everyone. 
You will plant vineyards and take care of them, but you will not gather their grapes or drink wine from them, because worms will eat the vines. 
The LORD is pleased with good people, but condemns those who plan evil. 
I appoint you to help my servant Israel, : the people that I have chosen. : I have given you great honour, : although you do not know me. 
Canaan was also the ancestor of the Jebusites, the Amorites, Girgashites, 
They say to themselves, “I will never fail; : I will never be in trouble.” 
After the LORD had finished speaking to Job, he said to Eliphaz, “I am angry with you and your two friends, because you did not speak the truth about me, as my servant Job did. 
Don't blame the Lord for your sin; the Lord does not cause what he hates.  
Ruin, ruin! Yes, I will make the city a ruin. But this will not happen until the one whom I have chosen to punish the city has come. Then I will give it to him. 
the son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, 
Put yourselves to the test and judge yourselves, to find out whether you are living in faith. Surely you know that Christ Jesus is in you? — unless you have completely failed. 
You give them enough : and satisfy the needs of all. 
But remember, my friends, what you were told in the past by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
The people in front scolded him and told him to be quiet. But he shouted even more loudly, “Son of David! Take pity on me!” 
After the Sabbath was over, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought spices to go and anoint the body of Jesus. 
‘Your brother has come back home,’ the servant answered, ‘and your father has killed the prize calf, because he got him back safe and sound.’ 
it will overwhelm them. The mountains will be soaked with their blood, and the valleys will be filled with their corpses. After our attack, they will be completely wiped out; not a trace of them will be left. This is the command of Nebuchadnezzar, the lord of the whole earth, and he doesn't speak idle words. 
Nobody takes a proverb seriously when some fool quotes it at the wrong time. 
Shout for joy to God our defender; : sing praise to the God of Jacob! 
When you bring a blind or sick or lame animal to sacrifice to me, do you think there's nothing wrong with that? Try giving an animal like that to the governor! Would he be pleased with you or grant you any favours?” 
So we are sending our brother with them; we have tested him many times and found him always very eager to help. And now that he has so much confidence in you, he is all the more eager to help. 
The LORD builds his home in the heavens, : and over the earth he puts the dome of the sky. : He calls for the waters of the sea : and pours them out on the earth. : His name is the LORD! 
29 other bowls 
Don't criticize the king, even silently, and don't criticize the rich, even in the privacy of your bedroom. A bird might carry the message and tell them what you said.
You sinned in secret, but I will make this happen in broad daylight for all Israel to see.’ ” 
Moses took Jethro's advice 
Whenever he killed some of them, : the rest would turn to him; : they would repent and pray earnestly to him. 
because the LORD has commanded me not to eat or drink a thing, and not to return home the same way I came.” 
Don't try to stop me. I intend to destroy them so that no one will remember them any longer. Then I will make you the father of a nation larger and more powerful than they are.’ 
From Egypt and Assyria I will bring them home : and settle them in their own country. : I will settle them in Gilead and Lebanon also; : the whole land will be filled with people. 
And I saw another angel coming up from the east with the seal of the living God. He called out in a loud voice to the four angels to whom God had given the power to damage the earth and the sea. 
Kings cannot tolerate evil, because justice is what makes a government strong. 
They shed your people's blood like water; : blood flowed like water all through Jerusalem, : and no one was left to bury the dead. 
So the Pharisees and the teachers of the Law asked Jesus, “Why is it that your disciples do not follow the teaching handed down by our ancestors, but instead eat with ritually unclean hands?” 
Where once I heard joyful music, : now I hear only mourning and weeping.
He raises the humble, : but crushes the wicked to the ground. 
I praise you, LORD, because you have saved me : and kept my enemies from gloating over me. 
Esau continued to plead with his father: “Have you only one blessing, father? Bless me too, father!” He began to cry. 
The food that was not destroyed by the fire melted when the first ray of sunlight warmed it. 
But the people of Gibeon, who were Hivites, heard what Joshua had done to Jericho and Ai, 
Righteousness makes a nation great; sin is a disgrace to any nation. 
They sewed five of them together in one set and the other six in another set. 
To conclude: you must all have the same attitude and the same feelings; love one another as brothers and sisters, and be kind and humble with one another. 
From that time on Jesus began to say plainly to his disciples, “I must go to Jerusalem and suffer much from the elders, the chief priests, and the teachers of the Law. I will be put to death, but three days later I will be raised to life.” 
A whip can raise a welt, but a vicious tongue can break bones. 
In just this way the people of Israel will have to live for a long time without kings or leaders, without sacrifices or sacred stone pillars, without idols or images to use for divination. 
Let no one become immoral or unspiritual like Esau, who for a single meal sold his rights as the elder son. 
She cried about it for the whole seven days of the feast. But on the seventh day he told her what the riddle meant, for she nagged him about it so much. Then she told the Philistines. 
My conscience is clear, but that does not prove that I am really innocent. The Lord is the one who passes judgement on me. 
Everything else that King Hezekiah did, his brave deeds, and an account of how he built a reservoir and dug a tunnel to bring water into the city, are all recorded in The History of the Kings of Judah. 
When that time comes, the people who live along the coast of Philistia will say, ‘Look at what has happened to the people we relied on to protect us from the emperor of Assyria! How will we ever survive?’ ”
In the first year that Cyrus of Persia was emperor, the LORD made what he had said through the prophet Jeremiah come true. He prompted Cyrus to issue the following command and send it out in writing to be read aloud everywhere in his empire
God spoke, and these were his words
Saul picked 3,000 men, keeping 2,000 of them with him in Michmash and in the hill country of Bethel and sending 1,000 with his son Jonathan to Gibeah, in the territory of the tribe of Benjamin. The rest of the men Saul sent home. 
started chasing Abner, running straight for him. 
“Whoever kidnaps a fellow-Israelite and takes him or her as a slave or sells them into slavery is to be put to death. In this way you will get rid of this evil. 
“But you ask, ‘Why shouldn't the son suffer because of his father's sins?’ The answer is that the son did what was right and good. He kept my laws and followed them carefully, and so he will certainly live. 
The Sovereign LORD said to me, “Mortal man, call all the birds and animals to come from all round to eat the sacrifice I am preparing for them. It will be a huge feast on the mountains of Israel, where they can eat meat and drink blood. 
When that day comes, a trumpet will be blown to call back from Assyria and Egypt all the Israelites who are in exile there. They will come and worship the LORD in Jerusalem, on his sacred hill.
Once there were seven brothers; the eldest got married and died without having children. 
If you bring a stranger home with you, it will only cause trouble, even between you and your own family.
You hate those who worship false gods, : but I trust in you. 
Then he poured some water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and dry them with the towel round his waist. 
Then they said to Joash, “Bring your son out here, so that we can kill him! He tore down the altar to Baal and cut down the symbol of Asherah beside it.” 
She will come to welcome you, like a mother or a young bride. 
Then the people of Israel sent messengers to the Amorite king Sihon to say
Once or twice merchants who sold all kinds of goods spent Friday night outside the city walls. 
When the man had finished measuring inside the temple area, he took me out through the east gate and then measured the outside of the area. 
I asked, ‘What shall I do, Lord?’ and the Lord said to me, ‘Get up and go into Damascus, and there you will be told everything that God has determined for you to do.’  
When Jesus heard the news about John, he left there in a boat and went to a lonely place by himself. The people heard about it, so they left their towns and followed him by land. 
King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia made Zedekiah son of Josiah king of Judah in the place of Jehoiachin son of Jehoiakim. 
The LORD helped the people of Judah, and they took possession of the hill country. But they did not capture Gaza, Ashkelon, or Ekron, with their surrounding territories. These people living along the coast had iron chariots, and so the people of Judah were not able to drive them out. 
The LORD is going to make you weak, and no one will respect you. 
The sight of such things arouses the passions of foolish people and makes them desire a dead, lifeless image. 
When did we ever see you sick or in prison, and visit you?’  
all these evil things come from inside a person and make him unclean.” 
Then I looked again at all the injustice that goes on in this world. The oppressed were weeping, and no one would help them. No one would help them, because their oppressors had power on their side. 
But do not forget one thing, my dear friends! There is no difference in the Lord's sight between one day and a thousand years; to him the two are the same. 
One day Ishbosheth son of Saul accused Abner of sleeping with Saul's concubine Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah. 
From Paul, who by God's will is an apostle of Christ Jesus — : To God's people in Ephesus, who are faithful in their life in union with Christ Jesus
Smoke poured out of his nostrils, : a consuming flame and burning coals from his mouth. 
But God was merciful to his people. : He forgave their sin : and did not destroy them. : Many times he held back his anger : and restrained his fury. 
But Jehoshaphat asked, “Isn't there another prophet through whom we can consult the LORD?” 
If you show more respect to the well-dressed man and say to him, “Have this best seat here,” but say to the poor man, “Stand over there, or sit here on the floor by my feet,” 
So let us now give praise to godly men, : our ancestors of generations past, 
Things turned out just as he said: you restored me to my position, but you executed the baker.” 
and died at the age of 969. 
When the men told him that Judith had arrived, he came to the outer part of the tent. Silver lamps were carried ahead of him. 
Or let these who are here tell what crime they found me guilty of when I stood before the Council — 
When the donkey saw the angel, it moved over against the wall and crushed Balaam's foot against it. Again Balaam beat the donkey. 
Correction and discipline are good for children. If they have their own way, they will make their mothers ashamed of them. 
The ungodly, however, will get the punishment their wicked thoughts deserve, because they rebelled against the Lord and ignored what was right.  
These are the words of the Philosopher, David's son, who was king in Jerusalem. 
By his power the Lord will judge and purify the nation and wash away the guilt of Jerusalem and the blood that has been shed there. 
This top section, on which the sacrifices were burnt, was also two metres high. The projections on the four corners were higher than the rest of the top. 
When they began to sing, the LORD threw the invading armies into a panic. 
For God in his wisdom made it impossible for people to know him by means of their own wisdom. Instead, by means of the so-called “foolish” message we preach, God decided to save those who believe. 
I will not spare you or show you any mercy. I am going to punish you for the disgusting things you have done, so that you will know that I am the LORD, and that I am the one who punishes you.” 
You are also to take all the silver and gold which you collect throughout the province of Babylon and the offerings which the Israelite people and their priests give for the Temple of their God in Jerusalem. 
Among them are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have punished by handing them over to the power of Satan; this will teach them to stop their blasphemy.
The LORD gave Moses 
If he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, since there are priests who offer the gifts required by the Jewish Law. 
You rely on your swords. Your actions are disgusting. Everyone commits adultery. What makes you think that the land is yours? 
So, my brother, please do me this favour for the Lord's sake; as a brother in Christ, cheer me up! 
All these men had foreign wives. They divorced them and sent them and their children away.
Babylonia has suddenly fallen and is destroyed! Mourn over it! Get medicine for its wounds, and perhaps it can be healed. 
Why did you deceive me and slip away without telling me? If you had told me, I would have sent you on your way with rejoicing and singing to the music of tambourines and harps. 
Praise him — he is your God, and you have seen with your own eyes the great and astounding things that he has done for you. 
Where could I get enough meat for all these people? They keep whining and asking for meat. 
you are permitted to observe it one month later instead, on the evening of the fourteenth day of the second month. Celebrate it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs. 
When the men went into Micah's house and took the sacred objects, the priest asked them, “What are you doing?” 
One of the heads of the beast seemed to have been fatally wounded, but the wound had healed. The whole earth was amazed and followed the beast. 
As long as you obey his commands, you are safe, and a wise person knows how and when to do it. 
“As I passed by again, I saw that the time had come for you to fall in love. I covered your naked body with my coat and promised to love you. Yes, I made a marriage covenant with you, and you became mine.” This is what the Sovereign LORD says. 
When Seth was 105, he had a son, Enosh, 
When they saw him, they worshipped him, even though some of them doubted. 
His father went to the woman's house, and Samson gave a banquet there. This was a custom among the young men. 
Jesus answered him, “My friend, who gave me the right to judge or to divide the property between you two?”  
The columns were set at the sides of the temple entrance: the one on the south side was named Jachin, and the one on the north side was named Boaz.
Many of them were saying, “He has a demon! He is mad! Why do you listen to him?” 
So I made up my mind not to come to you again to make you sad. 
So the whole community took him outside the camp and stoned him to death, as the LORD had commanded. 
So then, our brothers and sisters, stand firm and hold on to those truths which we taught you, both in our preaching and in our letter. 
He let him hear his voice and led him into the dark cloud, where, face to face, he gave him the commandments, the Law that gives life and knowledge, so that Moses might teach the covenant regulations to the Israelites. 
Then Joseph said to his brothers and the rest of his father's family, “I must go and tell the king that my brothers and all my father's family, who were living in Canaan, have come to me. 
But you, O Lord, are a merciful and loving God, : always patient, always kind and faithful. 
Then one of the elders said to me, “Don't cry. Look! The Lion from Judah's tribe, the great descendant of David, has won the victory, and he can break the seven seals and open the scroll.” 
They put fifty loops on the edge of the last piece of one set and fifty loops on the edge of the other set. 
Last of all, Jesus appeared to the eleven disciples as they were eating. He scolded them, because they did not have faith and because they were too stubborn to believe those who had seen him alive. 
Knowing you is perfect righteousness. Recognizing your power is where immortality begins. 
They will burn your houses down and let crowds of women see your punishment. I will make you stop being a prostitute and make you stop giving gifts to your lovers. 
He put the concubines and their children first, then Leah and her children, and finally Rachel and Joseph at the rear. 
As it is, however, the sacrifices serve year after year to remind people of their sins. 
“Yes,” he said, “you may well look at all these. I tell you this: not a single stone here will be left in its place; every one of them will be thrown down.” 
Jesus answered, “I performed one miracle, and you were all surprised.  
Edna made up the bed as Raguel had told her. Then she took Sarah into the room with her, and Sarah began to cry. But Edna wiped away her tears and said, 
God says, “I will save those who love me : and will protect those who acknowledge me as LORD. 
Solomon will keep one tribe, for the sake of my servant David and for the sake of Jerusalem, the city I have chosen to be my own from the whole land of Israel. 
But Moses called them, and Aaron and all the leaders of the community went to him, and Moses spoke to them. 
Then he shall take the cedar wood, the hyssop, the red cord, and the live bird and shall dip them in the blood of the bird that was killed and in the fresh water. And he shall sprinkle the house seven times. 
Everyone has seen what he has done; : but we can only watch from a distance. 
“And your people say that what I do isn't right! No, it's their way that isn't right. 
At that time there was a well-known prisoner named Jesus Barabbas. 
The official of the synagogue was angry that Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, so he spoke up and said to the people, “There are six days in which we should work; so come during those days and be healed, but not on the Sabbath!” 
Do you want to meet an important person? Take a gift and it will be easy. 
In the eighteenth year of his reign, King Josiah sent the court secretary Shaphan, the son of Azaliah and grandson of Meshullam, to the Temple with the order
A woman, whose daughter had an evil spirit in her, heard about Jesus and came to him at once and fell at his feet. 
Now that we have been put right with God through faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. 
in the third row, a turquoise, an agate, and an amethyst; 
But if you do marry, you haven't committed a sin; and if an unmarried woman marries, she hasn't committed a sin. But I would rather spare you the everyday troubles that married people will have. 
to say to the people of Israel, “When any of you or your descendants are unclean from touching a corpse or are far away on a journey, but still want to keep the Passover, 
He took some cream, some milk, and the meat, and set the food before the men. There under the tree he served them himself, and they ate. 
The LORD says, : “Ask every nation if such a thing : has ever happened before. : The people of Israel have done a terrible thing! 
Zedekiah rebelled against King Nebuchadnezzar, who had forced him to swear in God's name that he would be loyal. He stubbornly refused to repent and return to the LORD, the God of Israel. 
When the Israelites were camped in the Valley of Acacia, the men began to have sexual intercourse with the Moabite women who were there. 
“You were Israel's constant enemy and let her people be slaughtered in the time of her disaster, the time of final punishment for her sins. 
Being wise is better than being strong; yes, knowledge is more important than strength. 
The Lord gave Aaron the sacred robe with the gold, blue, and purple embroidery; the breastpiece with the Urim and Thummim,  
You cleared a place for it to grow; : its roots went deep, and it spread out over the whole land. 
Your Majesty, listen to what I have to say. If it is the LORD who has turned you against me, an offering to him will make him change his mind; but if human beings have done it, may the LORD's curse fall on them. For they have driven me out from the LORD's land to a country where I can only worship foreign gods. 
“Let us go to court; bring your accusation! : Present your case to prove you are in the right! 
‘Today you are to pass through the territory of Moab by way of Ar. 
Every day Jesus taught in the Temple. The chief priests, the teachers of the Law, and the leaders of the people wanted to kill him, 
Everything else that Nadab did is recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel. 
Abijah died and was buried in David's City, and his son Asa succeeded him as king. 
From there they went to Elim, where they camped, because there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees there. 
There is destruction everywhere; : the streets are full of oppression and fraud. 
Jacob had intercourse with Rachel also, and he loved her more than Leah. Then he worked for Laban another seven years. 
My skin has turned dark; I am burning with fever. 
All our lives we wandered across unmarked deserts, instead of following the road which the Lord wanted us to travel. And this lawlessness led us to ruin. 
So Hushai, David's friend, returned to the city just as Absalom was arriving.
They are going to end up in hell, because their god is their bodily desires. They are proud of what they should be ashamed of, and they think only of things that belong to this world. 
He allowed our enemies to capture the Covenant Box, : the symbol of his power and glory. 
Because of you they rejoice all day long, : and they praise you for your goodness. 
he said to Hazael, one of his officials, “Take a gift to the prophet, and ask him to consult the LORD to find out whether or not I am going to get well.” 
“Whenever one of the Israelites or one of the foreigners who live in the Israelite community turns away from me and worships idols, and then goes to consult a prophet, I, the LORD, will give him his answer! 
Why, nature itself teaches you that long hair on a man is a disgrace, 
Others were saying that Elijah had appeared, and still others that one of the prophets of long ago had come back to life. 
I will obey your laws; : never abandon me! 
All prices shall be fixed according to the official standard. 
They trust a thread — a spider's web. 
“But you, Israel my servant, : you are the people that I have chosen, : the descendants of Abraham, my friend. 
“As surely as I am the living God,” the Sovereign LORD says, “your sister Sodom and her villages never did the evil that you and your villages have done. 
All the Israelite women came to see her; they sang her praises and danced in her honour. On this joyful occasion Judith and the other women waved ivy-covered branches 
The sons of Ham — Cush, Egypt, Libya, and Canaan — were the ancestors of the peoples who bear their names. 
May the LORD, the God of your ancestors, make you increase a thousand times more and make you prosperous, as he promised! 
Everything I say is true; : nothing is false or misleading. 
A king wants to hear the truth and will favour those who speak it. 
“What do you want?” he asked her. : “I am a poor widow, sir,” she answered. “My husband is dead. 
Everything else that King Josiah did is recorded in The History of the Kings of Judah. 
In the other cities where priests lived, he was faithfully assisted in this by other Levites: Eden, Miniamin, Jeshua, Shemaiah, Amariah, and Shecaniah. They distributed the food equally to their fellow-Levites according to what their duties were, 
After this, David asked the LORD, “Shall I go and take control of one of the towns of Judah?” : “Yes,” the LORD answered. : “Which one?” David asked. : “Hebron,” the LORD said. 
Your people will all do what is right, : And will possess the land for ever. : I planted them, I made them, : To reveal my greatness to all. 
They strengthened the believers and encouraged them to remain true to the faith. “We must pass through many troubles to enter the Kingdom of God,” they taught. 
But if the Kohathites enter the Tent and see the priests preparing the sacred objects for moving, they will die.” 
Some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat a large amount of silver and other gifts, and some Arabs brought him 7,700 sheep and 7,700 goats. 
They brought the apostles in, made them stand before the Council, and the High Priest questioned them. 
I assembled the leaders of Judah on top of the wall and put them in charge of two large groups to march round the city, giving thanks to God. : The first group went to the right on top of the wall towards the Rubbish Gate.  
Kill it, and take some of its blood and put it on the lobes of the right ears of Aaron and his sons, on the thumbs of their right-hands and on the big toes of their right feet. Throw the rest of the blood against all four sides of the altar. 
The LORD has shown you this, to prove to you that he alone is God and that there is no other. 
When you stand before the king, don't try to impress him and pretend to be important. 
And for their sake I dedicate myself to you, in order that they, too, may be truly dedicated to you. 
‘100 barrels of olive oil,’ he answered. ‘Here is your account,’ the manager told him; ‘sit down and write fifty.’  
Israel has not been punished by the LORD as severely as its enemies, nor lost as many people. 
I would wear them proudly on my shoulder : and place them on my head like a crown. 
Make them afraid, O LORD; : make them know that they are only mortal beings.
saying, “Amen! Praise, glory, wisdom, thanksgiving, honour, power, and might belong to our God for ever and ever! Amen!” 
Saul asked him, “Young man, whose son are you?” : “I am the son of your servant Jesse from Bethlehem,” David answered.
Land animals took to the water, and swimming creatures came up on the land. 
But you are near to me, LORD, : and all your commands are permanent. 
I said, “Edom, I have received a message from the LORD. He has sent a messenger to tell the nations to assemble their armies and to get ready to attack you. 
I am telling you the truth: we speak of what we know and report what we have seen, yet none of you is willing to accept our message.  
They made fifty gold hooks, with which to join the two sets into one piece. 
As the people crowded round Jesus, he went on to say, “How evil are the people of this day! They ask for a miracle, but none will be given them except the miracle of Jonah.  
The five Philistine kings went to her and said, “Trick Samson into telling you why he is so strong and how we can overpower him, tie him up, and make him helpless. Each one of us will give you 1,100 pieces of silver.” 
These are the descendants of Gershon from generation to generation: Libni, Jahath, Zimmah, 
With him we are sending the brother who is highly respected in all the churches for his work in preaching the gospel. 
“I am the LORD, your saviour; : I am the one who created you. : I am the LORD, the Creator of all things. : I alone stretched out the heavens; : when I made the earth, no one helped me. 
“And so, King Agrippa, I did not disobey the vision I had from heaven. 
He sleeps at night, is up and about during the day, and all the while the seeds are sprouting and growing. Yet he does not know how it happens.  
Her life returned, and she got up at once, and Jesus ordered them to give her something to eat. 
Suppose, then, that you should see the Son of Man go back up to the place where he was before?  
Samson said, “This time I'm not going to be responsible for what I do to the Philistines!” 
The watchmen patrolling the city found me; : they struck me and bruised me; : the guards at the city wall tore off my cape. 
Every person has been given a great deal of work to do. A heavy burden lies on all of us from the day of our birth until the day we go back to the earth, the mother of us all. 
The LORD said to Moses, 
King Asa had an army of 300,000 men from Judah, armed with shields and spears, and 280,000 men from Benjamin, armed with shields and bows. All of them were brave, well-trained men. 
It is not right to make an innocent person pay a fine; justice is perverted when good people are punished. 
You will die here in this wilderness. 
One night each of us had a dream, and the dreams had different meanings. 
If you know what you are talking about, you have something more valuable than gold or jewels. 
no one with a crippled hand or foot; 
As they went through the towns, they delivered to the believers the rules decided upon by the apostles and elders in Jerusalem, and told them to obey those rules. 
There will always be some Israelites who are poor and in need, and so I command you to be generous to them. 
He said, “Go back to her and be her slave.” 
How I wish that someone would remember my words : and record them in a book! 
and there beside the river I saw a ram that had two long horns, one of which was longer and newer than the other. 
He grew stronger all the time, because the LORD God Almighty was with him. 
“Of course they haven't,” answered David. “My men always keep themselves ritually pure even when we go out on an ordinary mission; how much more this time when we are on a special mission!” 
that Hanamel, my uncle Shallum's son, would come to me with the request to buy his field at Anathoth in the territory of Benjamin, because I was his nearest relative and had the right to buy it for myself. 
Those who were not officers kept the loot they had taken. 
and you will be killed in battle in your own country. Then everyone will know that I am the LORD. 
In Lystra there was a man who had been lame from birth and had never been able to walk. 
So he made us feel the force of his anger : and suffer the violence of war. : Like fire his anger burned throughout Israel, : but we never knew what was happening; : we learnt from it nothing at all.
Jacob agreed, and when the week of marriage celebrations was over, Laban gave him his daughter Rachel as his wife. 
Greetings to Philologus and Julia, to Nereus and his sister, to Olympas and to all of God's people who are with them. 
We have sinned against you, LORD; : we confess our own sins : and the sins of our ancestors. 
This is the territory assigned to the descendants of Aaron of the clan of Kohath. They received the first share of the land assigned to the Levites. 
Two sons were born to Joseph in Egypt, bringing to seventy the total number of Jacob's family who went there. 
They changed its name from Laish to Dan, after their ancestor Dan, the son of Jacob. 
The LORD himself has said that he did not send them and that they are lying to you in his name. And so he will drive you out, and you will be killed, you and the prophets who are telling you these lies.” 
The priest shall perform the ritual of purification for the community, and they will be forgiven, because the mistake was unintentional and they brought their sin offering as a food offering to the LORD. 
On that day the LORD commanded the people of Israel to give them this part of the offering. It is a regulation that the people of Israel must obey for all time to come. 
The chariot pulled by the black horses was going north to Babylonia, the white horses were going to the west, and the dappled horses were going to the country in the south. 
Then I would be sleeping like princes : who filled their houses with gold and silver, 
“After forty years had passed, an angel appeared to Moses in the flames of a burning bush in the desert near Mount Sinai. 
Be strong and courageous! Let's fight hard for our people and for the cities of our God. And may the LORD's will be done.” 
The LORD will not abandon his people; : he will not desert those who belong to him. 
Instead, be kind and tender-hearted to one another, and forgive one another, as God has forgiven you through Christ.
Evil does not grow in the soil, : nor does trouble grow out of the ground. 
In the same way the men give up natural sexual relations with women and burn with passion for each other. Men do shameful things with each other, and as a result they bring upon themselves the punishment they deserve for their wrongdoing. 
There was only a dreadful fire, lit by no human hand, that shone on them, and in their terror they believed that the real world was even worse than the things they imagined. 
No human being then must separate what God has joined together.” 
A few days later Jesus went back to Capernaum, and the news spread that he was at home. 
One day an evil spirit from the LORD took control of Saul. He was sitting in his house with his spear in his hand, and David was there, playing his harp. 
There are those who reject the light; : they don't understand it or go where it leads. 
That same day he also consecrated the central part of the courtyard, the area in front of the Temple, and then he offered there the sacrifices burnt whole, the grain offerings, and the fat of the animals for the fellowship offerings. He did this because the bronze altar was too small for all these offerings. 
He sends his army to attack me; : they dig trenches and lay siege to my tent. 
Please, don't pay any attention to Nabal, that good-for-nothing! He is exactly what his name means — a fool! I wasn't there when your servants arrived, sir. 
They did not understand that Jesus was talking to them about the Father. 
How sweet is the taste of your instructions — : sweeter even than honey! 
“ ‘Observe the Sabbath and keep it holy, as I, the LORD your God, have commanded you. 
He says, “All the leaders, who are supposed to warn my people, are blind! They know nothing. They are like watchdogs that don't bark — they only lie about and dream. How they love to sleep! 
I once knew a wicked and ruthless person; : he towered over everyone like a cedar of Lebanon; 
Farmers, shepherds, and labourers out in the countryside were captured by the same inevitable fate and bound in the darkness by the same invisible chain. 
The ambitious artists who made these likenesses caused this worship to spread, even among people who did not know the king. 
“If any person who is not a member of a priestly family eats any of the sacred offerings without intending to, he must repay the priest its full value plus an additional twenty per cent. 
and they will be paid with suffering for the suffering they have caused. Pleasure for them is to do anything in broad daylight that will satisfy their bodily appetites; they are a shame and a disgrace as they join you in your meals, all the while enjoying their deceitful ways! 
For this reason I remind you to keep alive the gift that God gave you when I laid my hands on you. 
Lot went outside and closed the door behind him. 
They all came into a wooded area and found honey everywhere. 
On the ninth day of the fourth month of that same year, when the famine was so bad that the people had nothing left to eat, 
He wounds me again and again; : he attacks like a soldier gone mad with hate. 
Moses had given a part of the land to the families of the tribe of Reuben as their possession. 
This does not mean that anyone has seen the Father; he who is from God is the only one who has seen the Father.  
they have no pity and speak proudly. 
The LORD has determined our path; how then can anyone understand the direction his own life is taking? 
But it is not just creation alone which groans; we who have the Spirit as the first of God's gifts also groan within ourselves, as we wait for God to make us his children and set our whole being free. 
“Yes,” David answered, “I did fast and weep while he was still alive. I thought that the LORD might be merciful to me and not let the child die. 
The chief priests were accusing Jesus of many things, 
You answered me when I called to you; : with your strength you strengthened me. 
Then he rewarded Aaron again, giving him a special honour: the right to the offerings of the first produce, so that the priests should have enough to eat. 
Anyone who enters the house while it is locked up will be unclean until evening. 
Then the Israelites cried out to the LORD, and he sent a man to free them. This was Ehud, a left-handed man, who was the son of Gera, from the tribe of Benjamin. The people of Israel sent Ehud to King Eglon of Moab with gifts for him. 
We sailed from Philippi after the Festival of Unleavened Bread, and five days later we joined them in Troas, where we spent a week. 
But this was not necessary. You could have pursued them with your justice or struck them dead at the slightest hint of your power. But you have chosen to measure, count, and weigh everything you do. 
In this place I will frustrate all the plans of the people of Judah and Jerusalem. I will let their enemies triumph over them and kill them in battle. I will give their corpses to the birds and the wild animals as food. 
Nor does he need anything that we can supply by working for him, since it is he himself who gives life and breath and everything else to everyone. 
So there was a division in the crowd because of Jesus. 
So then, where does that leave the wise? or the scholars? or the skilful debaters of this world? God has shown that this world's wisdom is foolishness! 
Joab and his men advanced to attack, and the Syrians fled. 
I will make rivers flow among barren hills : and springs of water run in the valleys. : I will turn the desert into pools of water : and the dry land into flowing springs. 
It is my unchanging decision that when my people make their fellowship offerings, the breast and the thigh of the animal belong to the priests. This is the people's gift to me, the LORD. 
Following the disgusting practices of the nations whom the LORD had driven out of the land as his people advanced, Manasseh sinned against the LORD. 
From all their troubles, O God, : save your people Israel!
“To the angel of the church in Ephesus write: :   “This is the message from the one who holds the seven stars in his right-hand and who walks among the seven gold lampstands.  
Uzziah strengthened the fortifications of Jerusalem by building towers at the Corner Gate, at the Valley Gate, and where the wall turned. 
Korah, Gatam, and Amalek. These were all descendants of Esau's wife Adah. 
This is an illustration which points to the present time. It means that the offerings and animal sacrifices presented to God cannot make the worshipper's heart perfect, 
Look, I have two daughters who are still virgins. Let me bring them out to you, and you can do whatever you want with them. But don't do anything to these men; they are guests in my house, and I must protect them.” 
“Can anything good come from Nazareth?” Nathanael asked. : “Come and see,” answered Philip. 
The king got his war chariot and his army ready. 
When the people saw that Moses had not come down from the mountain but was staying there a long time, they gathered round Aaron and said to him, “We do not know what has happened to this man Moses, who led us out of Egypt; so make us a god to lead us.” 
Anyone who studies the ways of Wisdom will also learn her secrets. 
that he promised her, “I swear that I will give you anything you ask for!” 
so that the odour will spread throughout the room. When the demon smells it, he will leave and never come near Sarah again. But before you consummate the marriage, both of you must get up and pray for the Lord in heaven to be merciful to you and to protect you. Don't be afraid. Sarah was meant to be yours from the beginning of creation. You will rescue her from the demon, and she will go with you to your home. You and Sarah will have many children, whom you will love very much. So don't worry!” : Tobias listened very carefully to what Raphael had to say. He knew that Sarah was a relative on his father's side of the family. He began to fall in love with her and looked forward to marrying her.
Then she said to the servants, “You go on ahead and I will follow you.” But she said nothing to her husband. 
The passage of scripture which he was reading was this: : “Like a sheep that is taken to be slaughtered, : like a lamb that makes no sound when its wool is cut off, : he did not say a word. 
Hur was the eldest son of his father Caleb's wife Ephrath, and his descendants founded the city of Bethlehem. Hur had three sons: Etam, Penuel, and Ezer. Etam had three sons: Jezreel, Ishma, and Idbash, and one daughter, Hazzelelponi. Penuel founded the city of Gedor, and Ezer founded Hushah. 
Pay attention to what I say, my child. Listen to my words. 
Hezekiah prepared his city to resist a siege and provided it with a water supply. He had a tunnel built through solid rock with iron tools and had cisterns built to hold the water. 
Abimelech sent for Isaac and said, “So she is your wife! Why did you say she was your sister?” : He answered, “I thought I would be killed if I said she was my wife.” 
Jacob kept the sheep separate from the goats and made them face in the direction of the streaked and black animals of Laban's flock. In this way he built up his own flock and kept it apart from Laban's. 
And we know that our old being has been put to death with Christ on his cross, in order that the power of the sinful self might be destroyed, so that we should no longer be the slaves of sin. 
And we ourselves know and believe the love which God has for us. : God is love, and those who live in love live in union with God and God lives in union with them. 
Happy are those who remain faithful until 1,335 days are over! 
“Good!” David answered. “I will make an agreement with you on one condition: you must bring Saul's daughter Michal to me when you come to see me.” 
Then in the presence of the people Solomon went and stood in front of the altar and raised his arms in prayer. 
Amaziah, the priest of Bethel, then sent a report to King Jeroboam of Israel: “Amos is plotting against you among the people. His speeches will destroy the country. 
Some of the seed fell among thorn bushes, which grew up and choked the plants, and they didn't produce any corn.  
From Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by God's will, sent to proclaim the promised life which we have in union with Christ Jesus — 
But I want you to understand that Christ is supreme over every man, the husband is supreme over his wife, and God is supreme over Christ. 
The queen is taken captive; : her servants moan like doves : and beat their breasts in sorrow. 
Epaphras, who is in prison with me for the sake of Christ Jesus, sends you his greetings, 
That is how Moses divided the land east of Jericho and the Jordan when he was in the plains of Moab. 
and gave the following order to Hilkiah, to Ahikam son of Shaphan, to Abdon son of Micaiah, to Shaphan, the court secretary, and to Asaiah, the king's attendant
Sing to the LORD, all the world! : Proclaim every day the good news that he has saved us. 
Do you not know that we shall judge the angels? How much more, then, the things of this life! 
Thirteen cities in all, with their pasture lands, were given to the priests, the descendants of Aaron. 
Your power does not depend on the size and strength of an army. You are a God who cares for the humble and helps the oppressed. You give support and protection to people who are weak and helpless; you save those who have lost hope. 
Will a wild ox work for you? : Is he willing to spend the night in your stable? 
The Levites carried it on poles on their shoulders, as the LORD had commanded through Moses. 
These cities and their towns were in the land which the families of the tribe of Naphtali received as their possession. 
God keeps their future hidden : and hems them in on every side. 
The master of the house will get up and close the door; then when you stand outside and begin to knock on the door and say, ‘Open the door for us, sir!’ he will answer you, ‘I don't know where you come from!’  
You yourselves are so wise, and so you gladly tolerate fools! 
Keep their words with you always, locked in your heart. 
Many people have been misled by their own opinions; their wrong ideas have warped their judgement. 
Both were of the same size and shape. Each had two wings, each wing 2.2 metres long, so that the distance from one wing tip to the other was 4.4 metres. 
The number of men who ate was about 5,000, not counting the women and children. 
You won't be afraid of your enemies; : many people will ask you for help. 
I opened the door for my lover, : but he had already gone. : How I wanted to hear his voice! : I looked for him, but couldn't find him; : I called to him, but heard no answer. 
Note this and understand it: from the time the command is given to rebuild Jerusalem, until God's chosen leader comes, seven times seven years will pass. Jerusalem will be rebuilt with streets and strong defences, and will stand for seven times 62 years, but this will be a time of troubles. 
When the LORD first spoke to Israel through Hosea, he said to Hosea, “Go and get married; your wife will be unfaithful, and your children will be just like her. In the same way, my people have left me and become unfaithful.” 
All he does is full of honour and majesty; : his righteousness is eternal. 
He and Naarah had four sons: Ahuzzam, Hepher, Temeni, and Haahashtari. 
LORD, you are my God; : I will honour you and praise your name. : You have done amazing things; : you have faithfully carried out : the plans you made long ago. 
These are the twelve he chose: Simon (Jesus gave him the name Peter); 
Then King Xerxes asked Queen Esther, “Who dares to do such a thing? Where is this man?” 
The money that the Levite guards had collected in the Temple was handed over to Hilkiah the High Priest. (It had been collected from the people of Ephraim and Manasseh and the rest of the Northern Kingdom, and from the people of Judah, Benjamin, and Jerusalem.) 
The Benjaminites came back, and the other Israelites gave them the girls from Jabesh whom they had not killed. But there were not enough of them. 
But the bread that comes down from heaven is of such a kind that whoever eats it will not die.  
When Esau was forty years old, he married two Hittite women, Judith the daughter of Beeri, and Basemath the daughter of Elon. 
I will pour out my spirit on the people of Israel and never again turn away from them. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken.”
The time will come when your enemies will surround you with barricades, blockade you, and close in on you from every side.  
Shout, people of Gallim! Listen, people of Laishah! Answer, people of Anathoth! 
When two people have a dispute, they come to me, and I decide which one of them is right, and I tell them God's commands and laws.” 
He warns you not to let Hezekiah deceive you. Hezekiah can't save you. 
and then lived another 782 years. He had other children 
Jacob called for his sons and said, “Gather round, and I will tell you what will happen to you in the future
He stared at the angel in fear and said, “What is it, sir?” : The angel answered, “God is pleased with your prayers and works of charity, and is ready to answer you. 
Our dear brother Tychicus, who is a faithful worker and fellow-servant in the Lord's work, will give you all the news about me. 
Live in such a way as to cause no trouble either to Jews or Gentiles or to the church of God. 
Tell me, what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes indeed, but you saw much more than a prophet.  
Herod said, “I had John's head cut off; but who is this man I hear these things about?” And he kept trying to see Jesus. 
If he does not fulfil these duties to her, he must set her free and not receive any payment. 
It is a repayment offering for the sin he committed against the LORD.
These men assembled their fellow-Levites, and they all made themselves ritually clean. Then, as the king had commanded them to do, they began to make the Temple ritually clean, according to the Law of the LORD.  
Your enemies do not know that you will punish them. :   LORD, put them to shame and let them suffer; : let them suffer the punishment you have prepared. : Show them how much you love your people. 
Jesus was walking in Solomon's Porch in the Temple, 
So Midian was defeated by the Israelites and was no longer a threat. The land was at peace for forty years, until Gideon died. 
Jesus was walking through some cornfields on the Sabbath. His disciples began to pick the ears of corn, rub them in their hands, and eat the grain. 
He gave the same order to the second, the third, and to all the others who were in charge of the herds: “This is what you must say to Esau when you meet him. 
So Peter was kept in jail, but the people of the church were praying earnestly to God for him. 
even when I was afraid and said, : “No one can be trusted.” 
after that, he lived another 403 years and had other children. 
Nineveh, you too will fall into a drunken stupor! You too will try to escape from your enemies. 
The LORD answered, “You can do it because I will help you. You will crush the Midianites as easily as if they were only one man.” 
commit adultery, be greedy, and do all sorts of evil things; deceit, indecency, jealousy, slander, pride, and folly —  
I will make my covenant with you and give you many descendants.” 
“Women of Israel, mourn for Saul! : He clothed you in rich scarlet dresses : and adorned you with jewels and gold. 
For we know that Christ has been raised from death and will never die again — death will no longer rule over him. 
The LORD will send you back to Egypt in ships, even though he said that you would never have to go there again. There you will try to sell yourselves to your enemies as slaves, but no one will want to buy you.”
Otherwise, his children, who ought to be holy, will be ritually unclean. I am the LORD and I have set him apart as the High Priest.” 
If he retreats into a city, our people will all bring ropes and just pull the city into the valley below. Not a single stone will be left there on top of the hill.” 
For since we have become one with him in dying as he did, in the same way we shall be one with him by being raised to life as he was. 
Work miracles for us,  LORD, as you did in the days when you brought us out of Egypt. 
Then they crucified two bandits with Jesus, one on his right and the other on his left. 
Jesus knew that they wanted to question him, so he said to them, “I said, ‘In a little while you will not see me, and then a little while later you will see me.’ Is this what you are asking about among yourselves?  
These rules apply to you and your descendants wherever you may live. 
There in front of the whole assembly King David praised the LORD. He said, “LORD God of our ancestor Jacob, may you be praised for ever and ever! 
With whom was God angry for forty years? With the people who sinned, who fell down dead in the desert. 
but we prayed to our God and kept men on guard against them day and night. 
The LORD punished his people by sending them into exile. He took them away with a cruel wind from the east.  
And now, sir, I will stay here as your slave in place of the boy; let him go back with his brothers. 
The LORD sent Israel a leader, who freed them from the Syrians, and so the Israelites lived in peace, as before. 
In the countries to which the LORD will scatter you, the people will be shocked at what has happened to you; they will make fun of you and ridicule you. 
While she was in labour, one of them put out an arm; the midwife caught it, tied a red thread round it, and said, “This one was born first.” 
He will take your best fields, vineyards, and olive groves, and give them to his officials. 
and the towns and fortresses will be captured. On that day Moab's soldiers will be as frightened as a woman in labour. 
Don't set your heart on being a judge, unless you have the strength of character needed to put an end to injustice. If you let yourself be influenced by someone in a position of power, your integrity will be damaged. 
When a man makes a vow to give something to the LORD or takes an oath to abstain from something, he must not break his promise, but must do everything that he said he would. 
But the LORD said to him, “Pay no attention to how tall and handsome he is. I have rejected him, because I do not judge as people judge. They look at the outward appearance, but I look at the heart.” 
So the LORD was with Joshua, and his fame spread through the whole country.
In the same way, when working with Gentiles, I live like a Gentile, outside the Jewish Law, in order to win Gentiles. This does not mean that I don't obey God's law; I am really under Christ's law. 
and this is the story of Jacob's family. : Joseph, a young man of seventeen, took care of the sheep and goats with his brothers, the sons of Bilhah and Zilpah, his father's concubines. He brought bad reports to his father about what his brothers were doing. 
Even though Asa did not destroy all the pagan places of worship in the land, he remained faithful to the LORD all his life. 
What is more, I pledged my life to my father for the boy. I told him that if I did not bring the boy back to him, I would bear the blame all my life. 
Whoever does not love me does not obey my teaching. And the teaching you have heard is not mine, but comes from the Father, who sent me. 
When the Lord comes, everything will tremble: the earth and the great waters beneath it, the sky and the heavens above it. 
Your wisdom and education can be known only by what you say. 
I gave your ancestors no commands about burnt offerings or any other kinds of sacrifices, when I brought them out of Egypt. 
Now here is your chance. Remember that the LORD has said, ‘I will use my servant David to rescue my people Israel from the Philistines and from all their other enemies.’ ” 
“I will bring you to Zion, my sacred hill, give you joy in my house of prayer, and accept the sacrifices you offer on my altar. My Temple will be called a house of prayer for the people of all nations.” 
Whenever the city elders met : and I took my place among them, 
“I pray for them. I do not pray for the world but for those you gave me, for they belong to you.  
“Tell the Israelites to turn back and camp in front of Pi Hahiroth, between Migdol and the Red Sea, near Baal Zephon. 
And so I ask you, dear Lady: let us all love one another. This is no new command I am writing to you; it is the command which we have had from the beginning. 
Now, my son, do what I say. Go at once to my brother Laban in Haran, 
The young man answered, “Whatever you want to do, I'm with you.” 
burn for burn, wound for wound, bruise for bruise. 
What shall we do to provide wives for the men of Benjamin who are left? We have made a solemn promise to the LORD that we will not give them any of our daughters.” 
God's power is so great that we cannot come near him; : he is righteous and just in his dealings with us. 
God's anger is constant. He crushed his enemies : who helped Rahab, the sea monster, oppose him. 
Divide the land by drawing lots, and give a large share to a large tribe and a small one to a small tribe.” 
Moses set up the enclosure round the Tent and the altar and hung the curtain at the entrance of the enclosure. So he finished all the work. 
The tribes of Joseph, who was the father of two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim. 
My child, listen and pay attention to me; you will gain knowledge if you do. 
The five spies went straight on into the house and took the wooden idol covered with silver, the other idols, and the ephod, while the priest stayed at the gate with the 600 armed men. 
If Demetrius and his workers have an accusation against anyone, we have the authorities and the regular days for court; charges can be made there. 
We look on helpless as our crops are destroyed. : There is no joy in the Temple of our God. 
God, the light of Israel, will become a fire. Israel's holy God will become a flame, which in a single day will burn up everything, even the thorns and thistles. 
The people of Horonaim cry out, : ‘Violence! Destruction!’ 
After this, Johanan and the leaders of the soldiers who had not surrendered came to Gedaliah at Mizpah 
For the rest of his life King Uzziah was ritually unclean because of his disease. Unable to enter the Temple again, he lived in his own house, relieved of all duties, while his son Jotham governed the country. 
So the people of Israel did everything the LORD had commanded Moses. They camped, each under his own banner, and they marched, each with his own clan.
Moses examined everything and saw that they had made it all just as the LORD had commanded. So Moses blessed them.
Then the prophet Isaiah went to King Hezekiah and asked, “Where did they come from and what did they say to you?” : Hezekiah answered, “They came from a very distant country, from Babylonia.” 
God has blessed us; : may all people everywhere honour him.
I was hungry but you would not feed me, thirsty but you would not give me a drink;  
‘How?’ the LORD asked. The spirit replied, ‘I will go and make all Ahab's prophets tell lies.’ The LORD said, ‘Go and deceive him. You will succeed.’ ” 
until I provide a place for the LORD, : a home for the Mighty God of Jacob.” 
May your people worship you as long as the sun shines, : as long as the moon gives light, for ages to come. 
I hope to do so now. I would like to see you on my way to Spain, and be helped by you to go there, after I have enjoyed visiting you for a while. 
The thief comes only in order to steal, kill, and destroy. I have come in order that you might have life — life in all its fullness. 
The Lord answered her, “Martha, Martha! You are worried and troubled over so many things,  
You will be repaid for any kindness you show to a devout person. If he doesn't repay you, the Most High will. 
Send someone to Joppa for a man whose full name is Simon Peter. He is a guest in the home of Simon the tanner of leather, who lives by the sea.’ 
Jerusalem, your rulers and your people are like those of Sodom and Gomorrah. Listen to what the LORD is saying to you. Pay attention to what our God is teaching you. 
Are you trying to defend him? : Are you going to argue his case in court? 
The cup we use in the Lord's Supper and for which we give thanks to God: when we drink from it, we are sharing in the blood of Christ. And the bread we break: when we eat it, we are sharing in the body of Christ. 
Eltekeh, Gibbethon, Baalath, 
In the seventh month of that year, Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah and grandson of Elishama, a member of the royal family and one of the king's chief officers, went to Mizpah with ten men to see Gedaliah. While they were all eating a meal together, 
When Jesus entered Jerusalem, the whole city was thrown into an uproar. “Who is he?” the people asked. 
Judas was a member of our group, for he had been chosen to have a part in our work.” 
Your children should grow up to help you, not strangers. 
A good person's house will still be standing after an evildoer's house has been destroyed. 
he saved us. It was not because of any good deeds that we ourselves had done, but because of his own mercy that he saved us, through the Holy Spirit, who gives us new birth and new life by washing us. 
Then seven other cows came up; they were thin and bony. They came and stood by the other cows on the river bank, 
Because Elihu was the youngest one there, he had waited until everyone finished speaking. 
Then they all followed him back, shouting for joy and playing flutes, making enough noise to shake the ground. 
Jesus knew everything that was going to happen to him, so he stepped forward and asked them, “Who is it you are looking for?” 
I lie defeated in the dust; : revive me, as you have promised. 
Years later the king of Egypt died, but the Israelites were still groaning under their slavery and cried out for help. Their cry went up to God, 
If I went up to heaven, you would be there; : if I lay down in the world of the dead, you would be there. 
One day Adonijah offered a sacrifice of sheep, bulls, and fattened calves at Snake Rock, near the spring of Enrogel. He invited the other sons of King David and the king's officials who were from Judah to come to this sacrificial feast, 
Sing to the LORD! : Praise the LORD! : He rescues the oppressed from the power of evil people. 
He scorches the hills of the wilderness with drought, : and the grass turns brown from its heat; 
Then the one who sat on the cloud swung his sickle on the earth, and the earth's harvest was reaped. 
The fear of the Lord is like a rich garden of blessings; you could not want a more glorious shelter. 
The dead man's relative, the one in charge of the funeral, will take the body out of the house. The relative will call to whoever is still left in the house, “Is anyone else there with you?” : A voice will answer, “No!” : Then the relative will say, “Be quiet! We must be careful not even to mention the LORD's name.” 
You, your sons, and your servants will farm the land for your master Saul's family and bring in the harvest, to provide food for them. But Mephibosheth himself will always be a guest at my table.” (Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants.) 
Tell the people there what I, the Sovereign LORD, say about them: I am your enemy, Sidon; people will praise me because of what I do to you. They will know that I am the LORD, when I show how holy I am by punishing those who live in you. 
It may be that Onesimus was away from you for a short time so that you might have him back for all time. 
He does whatever he wishes : in heaven and on earth, : in the seas and in the depths below. 
His wife said to him, “You are still as faithful as ever, aren't you? Why don't you curse God and die?” 
Joseph answered, “I cannot, Your Majesty, but God will give a favourable interpretation.” 
The LORD said to me, 
I will make those who are victorious pillars in the temple of my God, and they will never leave it. I will write on them the name of my God and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which will come down out of heaven from my God. I will also write on them my new name. 
It is true that he struck the rock, : and water flowed out in a torrent; : but can he also provide us with bread : and give his people meat?” 
The LORD will punish Joab for those murders, which he committed without my father David's knowledge. Joab killed two innocent men who were better men than he: Abner, commander of the army of Israel, and Amasa, commander of the army of Judah. 
The LORD called Samuel a third time; he got up, went to Eli, and said, “You called me, and here I am.” : Then Eli realized that it was the LORD who was calling the boy, 
You men are so wise, so clever; : listen now to what I am saying. 
Listen to my cry for help, : my God and king! : I pray to you, O LORD; 
they should hold to the revealed truth of the faith with a clear conscience. 
Our ancestors put their trust in you; : they trusted you, and you saved them. 
When the sun was beginning to set, the twelve disciples came to him and said, “Send the people away so that they can go to the villages and farms round here and find food and lodging, because this is a lonely place.” 
Jesus and his disciples, including James and John, left the synagogue and went straight to the home of Simon and Andrew. 
The Philistines lined up on one hill and the Israelites on another, with a valley between them. 
So he took Balaam to the top of Mount Peor overlooking the desert. 
and then the third. The same thing happened to all seven — they died without having children. 
But once Jehoiada was dead, the leaders of Judah persuaded King Joash to listen to them instead. 
Samuel told the people who were asking him for a king everything that the LORD had said to him. 
Jesus answered, “Who is my mother? Who are my brothers?”  
God has raised from death our Lord Jesus, who is the Great Shepherd of the sheep as the result of his blood, by which the eternal covenant is sealed. 
If someone makes a careless vow, no matter what it is about, he is guilty as soon as he realizes what he has done. 
He said, “God loves you, so don't let anything worry you or frighten you.” : When he had said this, I felt even stronger and said, “Sir, tell me what you have to say. You have made me feel better.” 
But the two men inside reached out, pulled Lot back into the house, and shut the door. 
There in the LORD's presence he shall put the incense on the fire, and the smoke of the incense will hide the lid of the Covenant Box so that he will not see it and die. 
Silence those flattering tongues, O LORD! : Close those boastful mouths that say, 
The Sovereign LORD said, “That is the way the land is to be divided into sections for the tribes of Israel to possess.” 
After two years had passed, the king of Egypt dreamt that he was standing by the River Nile, 
When the Israelites on the other side of the Valley of Jezreel and east of the River Jordan heard that the Israelite army had fled and that Saul and his sons had been killed, they abandoned their towns and fled. Then the Philistines came and occupied them. 
And if the people of Israel will obey all my commands and keep the whole Law that my servant Moses gave them, then I will not allow them to be driven out of the land that I gave to their ancestors.” 
When you threatened them, O God of Jacob, : the horses and their riders fell dead. 
Following the example of his father Uzziah, Jotham did what was pleasing to the LORD. 
Your people will return to you from everywhere — from Assyria in the east, from Egypt in the south, from the region of the Euphrates, from distant seas and far-off mountains. 
“My tears will pour out in a ceaseless stream 
He never changes. No one can oppose him : or stop him from doing what he wants to do. 
the city walls were broken through. Although the Babylonians were surrounding the city, all the soldiers escaped during the night. They left by way of the royal garden, went through the gateway connecting the two walls, and fled in the direction of the Jordan Valley. 
Then King Asa gathered men from throughout Judah and ordered them to carry off the stones and timber that Baasha had been using at Ramah, and they used them to fortify the cities of Geba and Mizpah. 
Your ancestors and those prophets are no longer alive. 
We have not received this world's spirit; instead, we have received the Spirit sent by God, so that we may know all that God has given us. 
The father insisted that he stay, and so he stayed for three days. The couple had their meals and spent the nights there. 
As they wandered about in the East, they came to a plain in Babylonia and settled there. 
Then I heard a voice from heaven saying, “Write this: happy are those who from now on die in the service of the Lord!” : “Yes indeed!” answers the Spirit. “They will enjoy rest from their hard work, because the results of their service go with them.” 
To fear the Lord is Wisdom at her fullest; : she satisfies us completely with her gifts 
I will sing to you, O LORD, : because you have been good to me.
Would you like to enjoy life? : Do you want long life and happiness? 
“They are doomed! They have left me and rebelled against me. They will be destroyed. I wanted to save them, but their worship of me was false. 
When Joab and his men arrived, he was told that Abner had come to King David and had been sent away with a guarantee of safety. 
“Go to the High Priest Hilkiah and get a report on the amount of money that the priests on duty at the entrance to the Temple have collected from the people. 
But evil people are not like this at all; : they are like straw that the wind blows away. 
All the Israelites were told that Saul had killed the Philistine commander and that the Philistines hated them. So the people answered the call to join Saul at Gilgal. 
The day came during the Festival of Unleavened Bread when the lambs for the Passover meal were to be killed. 
Christ did not send me to baptize. He sent me to tell the Good News, and to tell it without using the language of human wisdom, in order to make sure that Christ's death on the cross is not robbed of its power. 
In the old proverb someone betrays his friends for money, : and his children suffer for it. 
“On the fourteenth day of this month, beginning at sunset, the people of Israel are to observe the Passover according to all the rules and regulations for it.” 
Some people's faith allows them to eat anything, but the person who is weak in the faith eats only vegetables. 
So now kill every boy and kill every woman who has had sexual intercourse, 
Listen before you answer. If you don't you are being stupid and insulting. 
“Comfort my people,” says our God. “Comfort them! 
(Eli was now 98 years old and almost completely blind.) 
David commanded the leaders of the Levites to assign various Levites to sing and to play joyful music on harps and cymbals. 
Then Saul — also known as Paul — was filled with the Holy Spirit; he looked straight at the magician 
I brought you from the ends of the earth; : I called you from its farthest corners : and said to you, ‘You are my servant.’ : I did not reject you, but chose you. 
Otherwise, the Egyptians will say that you were unable to take your people into the land that you had promised them. They will say that you took your people out into the desert to kill them, because you hated them. 
All things are done according to God's plan and decision; and God chose us to be his own people in union with Christ because of his own purpose, based on what he had decided from the very beginning. 
They have authority to shut up the sky so that there will be no rain during the time they proclaim God's message. They have authority also over the springs of water, to turn them into blood; they have authority also to strike the earth with every kind of plague as often as they wish. 
in his eighteenth year, 832 from Jerusalem; 
One of the criminals hanging there hurled insults at him: “Aren't you the Messiah? Save yourself and us!” 
The sisters sent Jesus a message: “Lord, your dear friend is ill.” 
Gedor, Ahio, Zecher, 
Please realize that I have not done all this hard work for myself alone, but to help anyone who wants to be wise.
There were still seven tribes of the people of Israel who had not yet been assigned their share of the land. 
Let us be concerned for one another, to help one another to show love and to do good. 
I baptize you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.” 
You have made Israel your own people for ever, and you, LORD, have become their God. 
So they let the Philistines see them, and the Philistines said, “Look! Some Hebrews are coming out of the holes they have been hiding in!” 
Your wife will be like a fruitful vine in your home, : and your children will be like young olive trees round your table. 
The people began to complain to the LORD about their troubles. When the LORD heard them, he was angry and sent fire on the people. It burnt among them and destroyed one end of the camp. 
May the LORD answer you when you are in trouble! : May the God of Jacob protect you! 
The teacher of the Law said to Jesus, “Well done, Teacher! It is true, as you say, that only the Lord is God and that there is no other god but he. 
The same regulation applies to all who unintentionally commit a sin, whether they are native Israelites or resident foreigners. 
You will die on that mountain as your brother Aaron died on Mount Hor, 
who changes rocks into pools of water : and solid cliffs into flowing springs.
The words “once more” plainly show that the created things will be shaken and removed, so that the things that cannot be shaken will remain. 
If the water dries up, they are the first to wither, : while still too small to be cut and used. 
and the water gradually went down for 150 days. 
And this is what God said about raising him from death, never to rot away in the grave: : ‘I will give you the sacred and sure blessings : that I promised to David.’ 
It was only right that God, who creates and preserves all things, should make Jesus perfect through suffering, in order to bring many children to share his glory. For Jesus is the one who leads them to salvation. 
It is by faith that we understand that the universe was created by God's word, so that what can be seen was made out of what cannot be seen. 
In this entrance room there were four tables, two on each side of the room. It was on these tables that they killed the animals to be offered as sacrifices, either to be burnt whole or to be sacrifices for sin or as repayment offerings. 
They turn everything upside down. Which is more important, the potter or the clay? Can a thing which someone has made say to its maker, “You didn't make me”? Or “You don't know what you are doing”? 
He asked for life, and you gave it, : a long and lasting life. 
Berechiah and Elkanah, along with Obed Edom and Jehiah, were chosen as guards for the Covenant Box. The priests Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah, and Eliezer were chosen to blow trumpets in front of the Covenant Box. 
At the beginning of the reign of Xerxes the emperor, the enemies of the people living in Judah and Jerusalem brought written charges against them. 
The Spirit told me to go with them without hesitation. These six fellow-believers from Joppa accompanied me to Caesarea, and we all went into the house of Cornelius. 
All God's people here send greetings, especially those who belong to the Emperor's palace. 
LORD, it is time for you to act, : because people are disobeying your law. 
Your land must not be sold on a permanent basis, because you do not own it; it belongs to God, and you are like foreigners who are allowed to make use of it. 
The peoples of the world will walk by its light, and the kings of the earth will bring their wealth into it. 
Joshua also set up twelve stones in the middle of the Jordan, where the priests carrying the Covenant Box had stood. (Those stones are still there.) 
He also removed the horses that the kings of Judah had dedicated to the worship of the sun, and he burnt the chariots used in this worship. (These were kept in the temple courtyard, near the gate and not far from the living quarters of Nathan Melech, a high official.) 
The LORD says, : “Babylonia, you are my hammer, my weapon of war. : I used you to crush nations and kingdoms, 
Iphtah, Ashnah, Nezib, 
Hear my cry, O God; : listen to my prayer! 
As she was dying, the women helping her said to her, “Be brave! You have a son!” But she paid no attention and did not answer. 
Now, about brother Apollos. I have often encouraged him to visit you with the other believers, but he is not completely convinced that he should go at this time. When he gets the chance, however, he will go. 
Mark a boundary round the mountain that the people must not cross, and tell them not to go up the mountain or even get near it. If anyone sets foot on it, he is to be put to death; 
She has sent her servant women to call out from the highest place in the town
Then I heard God shout, “Come here, you men who are going to punish the city. Bring your weapons with you.” 
The world was not good enough for them! They wandered like refugees in the deserts and hills, living in caves and holes in the ground. 
the priest shall go and look. If it has spread, the house is unclean. 
He will speak in my name, and I will punish anyone who refuses to obey him. 
We read in the Law of Moses, “Do not muzzle an ox when you are using it to thresh corn.” Now, is God concerned about oxen? 
No one lights a lamp and puts it under a bowl; instead he puts it on the lampstand, where it gives light for everyone in the house.  
The disciples saw this and became angry. “Why all this waste?” they asked. 
They will hide in caves in the rocky hills or dig holes in the ground to try to escape from the LORD's anger and to hide from his power and glory! 
(These two mountains are west of the River Jordan in the territory of the Canaanites who live in the Jordan Valley. They are towards the west, not far from the sacred trees of Moreh near the town of Gilgal.) 
They said to her, “But you have no relatives with that name!” 
It was while I was doing this that they found me in the Temple after I had completed the ceremony of purification. There was no crowd with me and no disorder. 
Samson led Israel for twenty years while the Philistines ruled the land.
You have often judged my ancestors for their sins : and punished me for mine. : We were disloyal and rejected your commands, : so our punishment has always been just. 
Abimelech warned all the people: “Anyone who ill-treats this man or his wife will be put to death.” 
And now, LORD God of Israel, I pray that you will also keep the other promise you made to my father when you told him that there would always be one of his descendants ruling as king of Israel, provided they obeyed you as carefully as he did. 
Now all of you who have killed anyone or have touched a corpse must stay outside the camp for seven days. On the third day and on the seventh day purify yourselves and the women you have captured. 
Uz the firstborn, Buz his brother, Kemuel the father of Aram, 
Huram cast two bronze columns, each one eight metres tall and 5.3 metres in circumference, and placed them at the entrance of the Temple. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “give a solemn warning to the king of Egypt. Give him this message from me: you act like a lion among the nations, but you are more like a crocodile splashing through a river. You muddy the water with your feet and pollute the rivers. 
With his finger he must sprinkle some of the blood on the altar seven times. In this way he is to purify it from the sins of the people of Israel and make it holy. 
Do not try to work together as equals with unbelievers, for it cannot be done. How can right and wrong be partners? How can light and darkness live together? 
He is a guest in the home of a tanner of leather named Simon, who lives by the sea.” 
So then all the trees said to the thorn bush, ‘You come and be our king.’ 
that the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, had said: “I have broken the power of the king of Babylonia. 
He asked them, “Why do you look so worried today?” 
(Absalom had put Amasa in command of the army in the place of Joab. Amasa was the son of Jether the Ishmaelite; his mother was Abigail, the daughter of Nahash and the sister of Joab's mother Zeruiah.) 
So Pilate went outside to them and asked, “What do you accuse this man of?” 
So Joseph took five of his brothers and went to the king. He said, “My father and my brothers have come from Canaan with their flocks, their herds, and all that they own. They are now in the region of Goshen.” 
He said to him, ‘You bad servant! I will use your own words to condemn you! You know that I am a hard man, taking what is not mine and reaping what I have not sown.  
or with your brother's wife. 
But keep away from foolish and ignorant arguments; you know that they end up in quarrels. 
For God's promise was made in these words: “At the right time I will come back, and Sarah will have a son.” 
So then, listen to them, but give them strict warnings and explain how their kings will treat them.” 
“ ‘I, and I alone, am God; : no other god is real. : I kill and I give life, I wound and I heal, : and no one can oppose what I do. 
but just one is needed. Mary has chosen the right thing, and it will not be taken away from her.”
Over and above all this that I have provided, I have given silver and gold from my personal property because of my love for God's Temple. 
Six steps led up to the throne, and there was a footstool attached to it, covered with gold. There were arms on each side of the throne, and the figure of a lion stood at each side. 
I will punish you. I will bring disaster on you — incurable diseases and fevers that will make you blind and cause your life to waste away. You will sow your seed, but it will do you no good, because your enemies will conquer you and eat what you have grown. 
But one of the men said, “We are all weak with hunger, but your father threatened us and said, ‘A curse be on anyone who eats any food today.’ ” 
These men served the king in Jerusalem, and in addition he stationed other soldiers in the other fortified cities of Judah.
So they went down alive to the world of the dead, with their possessions. The earth closed over them, and they vanished. 
The total number of descendants of the temple workmen and of Solomon's servants who returned from exile was 392. 
And the Lord gives us confidence in you, and we are sure that you are doing and will continue to do what we tell you. 
Everything that the people of Israel do from morning to night is useless and destructive. Treachery and acts of violence increase among them. They make treaties with Assyria and do business with Egypt.” 
As they looked on, a change came over Jesus: his face was shining like the sun, and his clothes were dazzling white. 
Bagoas went in and clapped his hands in front of the sleeping quarters of the tent, thinking that Holofernes was in bed with Judith. 
Ezra said, “Praise the LORD, the great God!” : All the people raised their arms in the air and answered, “Amen! Amen!” They knelt in worship, with their faces to the ground. 
Instead, they will serve me, the LORD their God, and a descendant of David, whom I will enthrone as king. 
King Hiram of Tyre sent a trade mission to David; he provided him with cedar logs and with carpenters and stonemasons to build a palace. 
The work they do as priests is really only a copy and a shadow of what is in heaven. It is the same as it was with Moses. When he was about to build the Sacred Tent, God said to him, “Be sure to make everything according to the pattern you were shown on the mountain.” 
Whoever wants to serve me must follow me, so that my servant will be with me where I am. And my Father will honour anyone who serves me. 
They say, “God has abandoned him; : let's go after him and catch him; : there is no one to rescue him.” 
You don't even know what your life tomorrow will be! You are like a puff of smoke, which appears for a moment and then disappears. 
LORD, from the very beginning you are God. You are my God, holy and eternal. LORD, my God and protector, you have chosen the Babylonians and made them strong so that they can punish us. 
The LORD, the God of Israel, said to me, “Jeremiah, the people are saying that war, starvation, and disease will make this city fall into the hands of the king of Babylonia. Now listen to what else I have to say. 
The following are the regulations for the fellowship offerings presented to the LORD. 
But his father and mother asked him, “Why do you have to go to those heathen Philistines to get a wife? Can't you find a girl in our own clan, among all our people?” : But Samson said to his father, “She is the one I want you to get for me. I like her.” 
Mighty king, you love what is right; : you have established justice in Israel; : you have brought righteousness and fairness. 
When King Baasha heard what was happening, he stopped fortifying Ramah and abandoned the work. 
They put ashes on their turbans and cried out in prayer to the Lord, begging him to have mercy on the whole nation.
With it you shall present two kilogrammes of flour mixed with olive oil as a food offering. The smell of this offering is pleasing to the LORD. You shall also present with it an offering of one litre of wine. 
“Leave this place and go east and hide yourself near the brook of Cherith, east of the Jordan. 
So he told this group of men to take the LORD's Covenant Box round the city once. Then they came back to camp and spent the night there. 
You give them rest from days of trouble : until a pit is dug to trap the wicked. 
Remember that all these things will happen before the people now living have all died.  
The LORD says, : “My servant will succeed in his task; : he will be highly honoured. 
So Amaziah sent the hired troops away and told them to go home. At this they went home, bitterly angry with the people of Judah. 
and said, “You son of the Devil! You are the enemy of everything that is good. You are full of all kinds of evil tricks, and you always keep trying to turn the Lord's truths into lies! 
to God be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus for all time, for ever and ever! Amen.
And so the Lord says, : “You must leave them : and separate yourselves from them. : Have nothing to do with what is unclean, : and I will accept you. 
On one occasion he went to Gibeon to offer sacrifices because that was where the most famous altar was. He had offered hundreds of burnt offerings there in the past. 
They will be the evidence of God's judgement on you and your descendants for ever. 
Some trust in their war chariots : and others in their horses, : but we trust in the power of the LORD our God. 
Then he added, “But first let's consult the LORD.” 
This is what he says in the book of Hosea: : “The people who were not mine : I will call ‘My People’. : The nation that I did not love : I will call ‘My Beloved’. 
Corpses will be scattered among the idols and round the altars, scattered on every high hill, on the top of every mountain, under every green tree and every large oak, in every place where they burnt sacrifices to their idols. Then everyone will know that I am the LORD. 
so that you will be able to choose what is best. Then you will be free from all impurity and blame on the Day of Christ. 
and Abidan son of Gideoni was in command of the tribe of Benjamin. 
When Samuel grew old, he made his sons judges in Israel. 
Then Jesus made the disciples get into the boat and go on ahead to the other side of the lake, while he sent the people away. 
As the wine offering with the first lamb, pour out at the altar one litre of wine. 
But you, LORD, are on my side, strong and mighty, : and those who persecute me will fail. : They will be disgraced for ever, : because they cannot succeed. : Their disgrace will never be forgotten. 
You bless those who obey you, LORD; : your love protects them like a shield.
The LORD said, “The time is coming when I will fulfil the promise that I made to the people of Israel and Judah. 
“It's blood!” they exclaimed. “The three enemy armies must have fought and killed each other! Let's go and loot their camp!” 
But some of them did not listen to Moses and saved part of it. The next morning it was full of worms and smelt rotten, and Moses was angry with them. 
All your hard work will do you no good, because your land will not produce crops and the trees will not bear fruit. 
I will be his father and he will be my son. I will not withdraw my support from him as I did from Saul, whom I removed so that you could be king. 
He made a bronze grating and put it under the rim of the altar, so that it reached halfway up the altar. 
We have obeyed all the instructions that Jonadab gave us. We ourselves never drink wine, and neither do our wives, our sons, or our daughters. 
and sprinkle some of its blood against the side of the altar. The rest of the blood will be drained out at the base of the altar. This is an offering to take away sin. 
We know that we belong to God even though the whole world is under the rule of the Evil One. 
Their answer was, “Moses gave permission for a man to write a divorce notice and send his wife away.” 
You are doomed! You are unable to break free from your sins. 
He chased me off the road, tore me to pieces, and left me. 
Dreams, divination, and omens are all nonsense. You see in them only what you want to see.  
But Abraham bowed before the Hittites 
I will abandon the people who survive, and will hand them over to their enemies, who will conquer them and plunder their land. 
“I have now decided to make a covenant with the LORD, the God of Israel, so that he will no longer be angry with us. 
Then Jephthah sent messengers to the king of Ammon to say, “What is your quarrel with us? Why have you invaded our country?” 
If the officials hear that I have talked with you, they will come and ask you what we said. They will promise not to put you to death if you tell them everything. 
Paul and Barnabas preached the Good News in Derbe and won many disciples. Then they went back to Lystra, to Iconium, and on to Antioch in Pisidia. 
If he dedicates the land immediately after a Year of Restoration, the full price applies. 
Aroer, Siphmoth, Eshtemoa, 
The angel of the LORD went from Gilgal to Bochim and said to the Israelites, “I took you out of Egypt and brought you to the land that I promised to your ancestors. I said, ‘I will never break my covenant with you. 
Take also seven pairs of each kind of bird. Do this so that every kind of animal and bird will be kept alive to reproduce again on the earth. 
But they prayed to their god, and he sent disasters that left the Egyptians helpless. When the Egyptians drove them out of the country, 
But I was deeply worried, because I could not find our brother Titus. So I said goodbye to the people there and went on to Macedonia. 
“If a slave owner takes a stick and beats his slave, whether male or female, and the slave dies on the spot, the slave owner is to be punished. 
Whenever you move your camp, the Levites shall take the Tent down and set it up again at each new camping place. Anyone else who comes near the Tent shall be put to death. 
No one took enough pity on you to do any of these things for you. When you were born, no one loved you. You were thrown out in an open field. 
But Micaiah answered, “By the living LORD, I will say what my God tells me to!” 
You have to be intelligent to learn anything; but there is such a thing as just pretending to be intelligent, which only makes people bitter. 
I wrote to you with a greatly troubled and distressed heart and with many tears; my purpose was not to make you sad, but to make you realize how much I love you all. 
“Please don't leave us,” Moses said. “You know where we can camp in the wilderness, and you can be our guide. 
And if anyone takes anything away from the prophetic words of this book, God will take away from them their share of the fruit of the tree of life and of the Holy City, which are described in this book. 
And so on the day of battle none of the Israelite soldiers except Saul and his son Jonathan had swords or spears. 
These are the regulations about a man who has a discharge or an emission of semen, 
“Praise God in the meeting of his people; : praise the LORD, all you descendants of Jacob!” 
Then some Pharisees and teachers of the Law came from Jerusalem to Jesus and asked him, 
Lord, I will live for you, for you alone; : Heal me and let me live. 
No throne like this had ever existed in any other kingdom. 
He drew his bow and made me the target for his arrows. 
For through him God created everything in heaven and on earth, the seen and the unseen things, including spiritual powers, lords, rulers, and authorities. God created the whole universe through him and for him. 
Wisdom is more beautiful than the sun and all the constellations. She is better than light itself, 
So now, just as straw and dry grass shrivel and burn in the fire, your roots will rot and your blossoms will dry up and blow away, because you have rejected what the LORD Almighty, Israel's holy God, has taught us. 
Jesus said, “I am telling you the truth: the man who does not enter the sheepfold by the gate, but climbs in some other way, is a thief and a robber.  
“He threw Egypt's army and its chariots into the sea; : the best of its officers were drowned in the Red Sea. 
The Sovereign LORD commands: “If the ruling prince gives any of the land he owns to one of his sons as a present, it will belong to that son as a part of his family property. 
Come and see what God has done, : his wonderful acts for mankind. 
and at once they left the boat and their father, and went with him. 
Meanwhile the prophet Elisha called one of the young prophets and said to him, “Get ready and go to Ramoth in Gilead. Take this jar of olive oil with you, 
Pilate wanted to please the crowd, so he set Barabbas free for them. Then he had Jesus whipped and handed him over to be crucified. 
Dear friends, let us love one another, because love comes from God. Whoever loves is a child of God and knows God. 
This is what he says in all his letters when he writes on the subject. There are some difficult things in his letters which ignorant and unstable people explain falsely, as they do with other passages of the Scriptures. So they bring on their own destruction. 
Don't think up lies to tell about your friends. 
But the Lord will take away everything she has. He will throw her wealth into the sea, and the city will be burnt to the ground. 
Jesus paid no attention to what they said, but told him, “Don't be afraid, only believe.”  
This clan was to camp on the west behind the Tent, 
A gentle answer quietens anger, but a harsh one stirs it up. 
An Israelite soldier named Zichri killed King Ahaz' son Maaseiah, the palace administrator Azrikam, and Elkanah, who was second in command to the king. 
With each ram he is to bring an offering of 17.5 litres of corn, and with each lamb he is to bring whatever he wants to give. For each such grain offering he is to bring three litres of olive oil. 
The LORD is my shepherd; : I have everything I need. 
Call to me when trouble comes; : I will save you, : and you will praise me.” 
Wealth that you get by dishonesty will do you no good, but honesty can save your life. 
A liar has no honour. He lives in constant disgrace. 
I arranged for the wood used for burning the offerings to be brought at the proper times, and for the people to bring their offerings of the first corn and the first fruits that ripened. : Remember all this, O God, and give me credit for it.
Do not be like your ancestors. Long ago the prophets gave them my message, telling them not to live evil, sinful lives any longer. But they would not listen to me or obey me. 
My child, take care of your father when he grows old; give him no cause for worry as long as he lives. 
The Lord can easily wait until the day of our death to reward or punish us. 
Fear is nothing but the failure to use the help that reason gives. 
or tattoo yourselves or cut gashes in your body to mourn for the dead. I am the LORD. 
But the king of Judah rebelled and sent agents to Egypt to get horses and a large army. Will he succeed? Can he get away with that? He cannot break the treaty and go unpunished! 
And the people of this evil nation who survive, who live in the places where I have scattered them, will prefer to die rather than to go on living. I, the LORD Almighty, have spoken.” 
When she had finished her story, the people cheered so loudly that the whole town echoed with sounds of joy. 
You came to him with great blessings : and set a crown of gold on his head. 
This God — how perfect are his deeds, : how dependable his words! : He is like a shield : for all who seek his protection. 
Do you perform miracles for the dead? : Do they rise up and praise you? 
Many have had their lives ruined and have been driven from their homes because of people who meddled in their business. Such unwanted interference has resulted in the destruction of strong cities and the homes of respected people. 
And when I begged you to listen to my cry, you heard. 
So David left, fleeing from Saul, and went to King Achish of Gath. 
On the day you got up from the table without eating your meal in order to bury that corpse, God sent me to test you. 
By fire and sword he will punish all the people of the world whom he finds guilty — and many will be put to death. 
They will pursue us until we have led them away from the city. They will think that we are running away from them, as we did before. 
Pilate called together the chief priests, the leaders, and the people, 
Virgin Israel has fallen, : Never to rise again! : She lies abandoned on the ground, : And no one helps her up. 
When the Assyrians saw what was happening, they sent word to their officers, and these reported the matter to their superiors. 
“But show kindness to the sons of Barzillai from Gilead and take care of them, because they were kind to me when I was fleeing from your brother Absalom. 
But they did not drive out the Canaanites who lived in Gezer, so the Canaanites have lived among the Ephraimites to this day, but they have been forced to work as slaves.
“Look, you put your trust in deceitful words. 
A wise person will try to keep the king happy; if the king becomes angry, someone may die. 
“The LORD your God will bless your work and fill your barns with corn. He will bless you in the land that he is giving you. 
“I will destroy you, people of Israel! Then who can help you?  
he ordered me to be beaten and placed in chains near the upper Benjamin Gate in the Temple. 
Why is this foreigner the only one who came back to give thanks to God?”  
These cities and their towns were in the land which the families of the tribe of Dan received as their possession. 
The three famous soldiers forced their way through the Philistine camp, drew some water from the well, and brought it back to David. But he would not drink it; instead he poured it out as an offering to the LORD  
But you belong to God, my children, and have defeated the false prophets, because the Spirit who is in you is more powerful than the spirit in those who belong to the world. 
The commander gave him permission, so Paul stood on the steps and motioned with his hand for the people to be silent. When they were quiet, Paul spoke to them in Hebrew
They are like lions, waiting for me, : wanting to tear me to pieces. 
Masters, behave in the same way towards your slaves and stop using threats. Remember that you and your slaves belong to the same Master in heaven, who judges everyone by the same standard. 
Your anger lies heavy on me, : and I am crushed beneath its waves. 
To the only God, who alone is all-wise, be glory through Jesus Christ for ever! Amen.
Jekamiah, and Elishama. 
So I made another promise in the desert. I vowed that I would scatter them all over the world. 
Even though you make your home : as high as an eagle's nest, : so that it seems to be among the stars, : yet I will pull you down. 
He will pass judgement on the nations : and fill the battlefield with corpses; : he will defeat kings all over the earth. 
He looked round, and saw a loaf of bread and a jar of water near his head. He ate and drank, and lay down again. 
But Joab answered the king, “Your Majesty, may the LORD your God make the people of Israel a hundred times more numerous than they are now, and may you live to see him do it. But why does Your Majesty want to do this?” 
So I said to them, “The LORD spoke to me and told me 
Then he took a piece of bread, gave thanks to God, broke it, and gave it to them, saying, “This is my body, which is given for you. Do this in memory of me.”  
Then a hand took hold of me and raised me to my hands and knees; I was still trembling. 
and two frames for the corners. 
how much greater is the glory that belongs to the activity of the Spirit! 
But Jehu did not obey with all his heart the law of the LORD, the God of Israel; instead, he followed the example of Jeroboam, who led Israel into sin. 
Do not let anyone look down on you because you are young, but be an example for the believers in your speech, your conduct, your love, faith, and purity. 
I promise by the living LORD, who gives Israel victory, that the guilty one will be put to death, even if he is my son Jonathan.” But no one said anything. 
But I have as much sense as you have; : I am in no way inferior to you; : everyone knows all that you have said. 
then as soon as his attention is called to the sin, he shall bring as his offering a male goat without any defects. 
The LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, has said that he will put an iron yoke on all these nations and that they will serve King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia. The LORD has said that he will make even the wild animals serve Nebuchadnezzar.” 
All those sitting in the Council fixed their eyes on Stephen and saw that his face looked like the face of an angel.
Anyone who touches her bed or anything on which she has sat must wash his clothes and have a bath, and he remains unclean until evening. 
So now, O God of Israel, let everything come true that you promised to my father David, your servant. 
They said to you, “When the last days come, people will appear who will mock you, people who follow their own godless desires.” 
Thunder announces the approaching storm, : and the cattle know it is coming.
They were as tall as the Anakim. There were many of them, and they were a mighty race. But the LORD destroyed them, so that the Ammonites took over their land and settled there. 
He saw two boats pulled up on the beach; the fishermen had left them and were washing the nets. 
I find pleasure in obeying your commands, : because I love them. 
Then the LORD wrote on those tablets the same words that he had written the first time, the Ten Commandments that he gave you when he spoke from the fire on the day you were gathered at the mountain. The LORD gave me the tablets, 
So they went and found a colt out in the street, tied to the door of a house. As they were untying it, 
“He took note of all my sins and tied them all together; : He hung them round my neck, and I grew weak beneath the weight. : The Lord gave me to my foes, and I was helpless against them. 
For your goods the merchants of Sheba and Raamah exchanged jewels, gold, and the finest spices. 
but for all the wild animals and for all the birds I have provided grass and leafy plants for food” — and it was done. 
All the priests present, regardless of the group to which they belonged, had consecrated themselves. And all the Levite musicians — Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun, and the members of their clans — were wearing linen clothing. The Levites stood near the east side of the altar with cymbals and harps, and with them were 120 priests playing trumpets. The singers were accompanied in perfect harmony by trumpets, cymbals, and other instruments, as they praised the LORD, singing: : “Praise the LORD, because he is good, : And his love is eternal.” : As the priests were leaving the Temple, it was suddenly filled with a cloud shining with the dazzling light of the LORD's presence, and they could not continue the service of worship.
“He was treated harshly, but endured it humbly; : he never said a word. : Like a lamb about to be slaughtered, : like a sheep about to be sheared, : he never said a word. 
Since you have accepted Christ Jesus as Lord, live in union with him. 
If you hear that a friend has done something wrong, ask him about it. Maybe it isn't true. If it is true, he won't do it again. 
The gods of all other nations are only idols, : but the LORD created the heavens. 
Every day Mordecai would walk to and fro in front of the courtyard of the harem, in order to find out how she was getting on and what was going to happen to her. 
In my anger I have given you kings, and in my fury I have taken them away. 
The LORD protects honest people, but destroys those who do wrong. 
You have shown constant love to thousands, but you also punish people for the sins of their parents. You are a great and powerful God; you are the LORD Almighty. 
So Moses gave Gilead to the clan of Machir, and they lived there. 
Then Solomon prayed: : “You, LORD, have placed the sun in the sky, : yet you have chosen to live in clouds and darkness. 
Lift up your spear and your axe : against those who pursue me. : Promise that you will save me. 
What I mean, brothers and sisters, is that what is made of flesh and blood cannot share in God's Kingdom, and what is mortal cannot possess immortality. 
The priest shall present her offering to the Lord and perform the ritual to take away her impurity, and she will be ritually clean. This, then, is what a woman must do after giving birth. 
They were enjoying themselves, so they said, “Call Samson, and let's make him entertain us!” When they brought Samson out of the prison, they made him entertain them and made him stand between the pillars. When the people saw him, they sang praise to their god: “Our god has given us victory over our enemy, who devastated our land and killed so many of us!” 
and many terrible disasters will come on them. But this song will still be sung, and it will stand as evidence against them. Even now, before I take them into the land that I promised to give them, I know what they are thinking.” 
Why don't lazy people ever get out of the house? What are they afraid of? Lions? 
In the first month the whole community of Israel came to the wilderness of Zin and camped at Kadesh. There Miriam died and was buried. 
We will find David wherever he is, and attack him before he knows what's happening. Neither he nor any of his men will survive. 
I ask, then: when the Jews stumbled, did they fall to their ruin? By no means! Because they sinned, salvation has come to the Gentiles, to make the Jews jealous of them. 
One of them ran up with a sponge, soaked it in cheap wine, and put it on the end of a stick. Then he held it up to Jesus' lips and said, “Wait! Let us see if Elijah is coming to bring him down from the cross!” 
And so with deep affection they will pray for you because of the extraordinary grace God has shown you. 
Do for others just what you want them to do for you. 
and so become guilty of breaking their earlier promise to him. 
But he answered, “I have food to eat that you know nothing about.” 
their god dried up the Red Sea in front of them, 
LORD, place a guard at my mouth, : a sentry at the door of my lips. 
The time for the Festival of Shelters was near, 
The bronze altar dedicated to the LORD was between the new altar and the Temple, so Ahaz moved it to the north side of his new altar. 
Use the best wheat flour, but no yeast, and make some bread with olive oil, some without it, and some in the form of biscuits brushed with oil. 
Your neck is like the tower of David, : round and smooth, : with a necklace like a thousand shields hung round it. 
They left Midian and went to Paran, where some other men joined them. Then they travelled to Egypt and went to the king, who gave Hadad some land and a house and provided him with food. 
with this answer: “It is not true that Israel took away the land of Moab or the land of Ammon. 
Do not listen to an accusation against an elder unless it is brought by two or more witnesses. 
Esther replied, “If it please Your Majesty, I would like you and Haman to be my guests tonight at a banquet I am preparing for you.” 
As soon as Amaziah was firmly in power, he executed the officials who had killed his father, the king. 
He is the only one who shares my feelings and who really cares about you. 
“What is it?” I asked. : He replied, “It is a basket, and it stands for the sin of the whole land.” 
Then the LORD God made a plant grow up over Jonah to give him some shade, so that he would be more comfortable. Jonah was extremely pleased with the plant. 
There were 642 belonging to the clans of Delaiah, Tobiah, and Nekoda who returned from the towns of Tel Melah, Tel Harsha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer; but they could not prove that they were descendants of Israelites. 
Then the angel told Joshua that 
The Sovereign LORD says, “I will once again let the Israelites ask me for help, and I will let them increase in numbers like a flock of sheep. 
And yet the flames could not burn the flesh of the perishable creatures walking in them, and did not melt that heavenly food that would ordinarily have melted like frost. 
nor any darkness. There will always be daylight, even at night-time. When this will happen is known only to the LORD. 
The top of each column was decorated with a design of interwoven chains,  
You know that everyone in the province of Asia, including Phygelus and Hermogenes, has deserted me. 
Happy are those who have the God of Jacob to help them : and who depend on the LORD their God, 
so he told them, ‘You also go and work in the vineyard, and I will pay you a fair wage.’  
But the Lord is faithful, and he will strengthen you and keep you safe from the Evil One. 
Then Festus, after conferring with his advisers, answered, “You have appealed to the Emperor, so to the Emperor you will go.” 
Who is this great king? : He is the LORD, strong and mighty, : the LORD, victorious in battle. 
Then Jesus replied, “I have been sent only to the lost sheep of the people of Israel.” 
The first horror is over; after this there are still two more horrors to come. 
You are Israel's only hope; : you are the one who saves us from disaster. : Why are you like a stranger in our land, : like a traveller who stays for only one night? 
and not only for them, but also to bring together into one body all the scattered people of God. 
Abner told David, “I will go now and win all Israel over to Your Majesty. They will accept you as king, and then you will get what you have wanted and will rule over the whole land.” David gave Abner a guarantee of safety and sent him on his way. 
But my dispute is with God, not you; : I want to argue my case with him. 
And don't forget to thank your Creator for letting you enjoy so many good things. 
They took Jesus to a place called Golgotha, which means “The Place of the Skull”. 
Look up at the heavens; look at the earth! : The heavens will disappear like smoke; : the earth will wear out like old clothing, : and all its people will die like flies. : But the deliverance I bring will last for ever; : my victory will be final. 
“When you go to attack a city, first give its people a chance to surrender. 
Not only are you beautiful, but you know how to make a speech. If you do as you have promised, your God will be my God. You will live in King Nebuchadnezzar's palace and will be famous throughout the world.”
The people of Israel defeated the kings of the following cities: Jericho, Ai (near Bethel), 
They have left the way of truth and are upsetting the faith of some believers by saying that our resurrection has already taken place. 
And so the news about Jesus spread quickly everywhere in the province of Galilee. 
And so I, the Sovereign LORD, will pour out my fierce anger on this Temple. I will pour it out on people and animals alike, and even on the trees and the crops. My anger will be like a fire that no one can put out. 
Great sorrow has come to the people of Gaza, : and Ashkelon's people are silent. : How long will the rest of Philistia mourn? 
The LORD, the God of Israel, 
If so, stand up in your honour and pride; : clothe yourself with majesty and glory. 
Praise God, O heaven and earth, : seas and all creatures in them. 
You saw their disgusting idols made of wood, stone, silver, and gold. 
so that none of you should turn back because of these persecutions. You yourselves know that such persecutions are part of God's will for us. 
How wise you were, Solomon, when you were young! Your knowledge was like the Nile in flood. 
The pain! I can't bear the pain! : My heart! My heart is beating wildly! : I can't keep quiet; : I hear the trumpets : and the shouts of battle. 
Emperor Shalmaneser of Assyria made war against him; Hoshea surrendered to Shalmaneser and paid him tribute every year. 
God is our shelter and strength, : always ready to help in times of trouble. 
The LORD gave Moses the following regulations 
Those who lead these people have misled them and totally confused them. 
The gates in the north wall are named after Reuben, Judah, and Levi; those in the east wall, after Joseph, Benjamin, and Dan;
They will not suffer when times are bad; : they will have enough in time of famine. 
So then, let us stop judging one another. Instead, you should decide never to do anything that would make another stumble or fall into sin. 
You are here today to enter into this covenant that the LORD your God is making with you and to accept its obligations, 
who was the father of Maon, who was the father of Bethzur. 
Always obey the LORD and you will be happy. If you are stubborn, you will be ruined. 
Then they began to ask among themselves which one of them it could be who was going to do this. 
The king said to Ziba, “Everything that belonged to Mephibosheth is yours.” : “I am your servant,” Ziba replied. “May I always please Your Majesty!” 
Don't be tempted by their beauty; don't be trapped by their flirting eyes. 
You have no right to crush my people and take advantage of the poor. I, the Sovereign LORD Almighty, have spoken.” 
Then Memucan declared to the king and his officials: “Queen Vashti has insulted not only the king but also his officials — in fact, every man in the empire! 
As soon as he finished saying this, David's sons came in; they started crying, and David and his officials also wept bitterly. 
to him who rides in the sky, : the ancient sky. : Listen to him shout with a mighty roar. 
They have taken up their bows and swords; they are cruel and merciless. They sound like the roaring sea, as they ride their horses. They are ready for battle against Jerusalem.” 
You can show your great power whenever you wish, and no one can stand up against it. 
If trouble comes your way, you will find him waiting, ready to trip you up while he pretends to help you. 
All these were famous in their own times, : honoured by the people of their day. 
You will toss them in the air; : the wind will carry them off, : and they will be scattered by the storm. : Then you will be happy because I am your God; : you will praise me, the holy God of Israel. 
Get to know the people round you as well as you can, and take advice only from those who are qualified to give it. 
When we were safely ashore, we learnt that the island was called Malta. 
It was three years later that I went to Jerusalem to obtain information from Peter, and I stayed with him for two weeks. 
The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our ancestors, has given divine glory to his Servant Jesus. But you handed him over to the authorities, and you rejected him in Pilate's presence, even after Pilate had decided to set him free. 
So if anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him. For God's temple is holy, and you yourselves are his temple. 
And there are heavenly bodies and earthly bodies; the beauty that belongs to heavenly bodies is different from the beauty that belongs to earthly bodies. 
Then you will always trust in God : and find that he is the source of your joy. 
God raised the Lord from death, and he will also raise us by his power. 
Pay close attention, son, and let my life be your example. 
Go, then, to all peoples everywhere and make them my disciples: baptize them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit,  
The soldiers who had camped in the mountains round Bethulia also began to retreat. Then all the Israelite soldiers came charging down on them. 
Now we can give thanks to our God for you. We thank him for the joy we have in his presence because of you. 
and Jehu sent word throughout all the land of Israel. All who worshipped Baal came; not one of them failed to come. They all went into the temple of Baal, filling it from one end to the other. 
So I hope to send him to you as soon as I know how things are going to turn out for me. 
Even the most refined woman of noble birth, so rich that she has never had to walk anywhere, she will not share them with the husband she loves or with any of her children.
God has shown that there is safety with him : inside the fortresses of the city. 
As Jesus was getting into the boat, the man who had had the demons begged him, “Let me go with you!” 
It was your will and purpose to do this; you have done all these great things in order to teach me. 
Watch out for those who do evil things, those dogs, those who insist on cutting the body. 
Then he said, “These are the two men whom God has chosen and anointed to serve him, the Lord of the whole earth.” 
But the righteous are glad and rejoice in his presence; : they are happy and shout for joy. 
So Saul sent him away and put him in command of a thousand men. David led his men in battle 
He was given authority, honour, and royal power, so that the people of all nations, races, and languages would serve him. His authority would last for ever, and his kingdom would never end. 
You are my hiding place; : you will save me from trouble. : I sing aloud of your salvation, : because you protect me. 
Each of you will take his firepan, put incense on it, and then present it at the altar.” 
Saul was convinced by what Jonathan said and made a vow in the LORD's name that he would not kill David. 
But some of them returned to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done. 
Then he said to Aaron, “Go to the altar and offer the sin offering and the burnt offering to take away your sins and the sins of the people. Present this offering to take away the sins of the people, just as the LORD commanded.” 
The angel spoke to the women. “You must not be afraid,” he said. “I know you are looking for Jesus, who was crucified. 
if you are so honest and pure, : then God will come and help you : and restore your household as your reward. 
Certainly not God, who did not even keep back his own Son, but offered him for us all! He gave us his Son — will he not also freely give us all things? 
will themselves drink God's wine, the wine of his fury, which he has poured at full strength into the cup of his anger! All who do this will be tormented in fire and sulphur before the holy angels and the Lamb. 
The two of them made a sacred promise of friendship to each other. David stayed at Horesh, and Jonathan went home. 
Robbery always claims the life of the robber — this is what happens to anyone who lives by violence. 
We will get up early and look at the vines : to see whether they've started to grow, : whether the blossoms are opening : and the pomegranate trees are in bloom. : There I will give you my love. 
Another horse came out, a red one. Its rider was given the power to bring war on the earth, so that people should kill each other. He was given a large sword. 
And if a Christian woman is married to a man who is an unbeliever and he agrees to go on living with her, she must not divorce him. 
The LORD sent them to go and inspect the earth.” 
The Lord said, “These people claim to worship me, but their words are meaningless, and their hearts are somewhere else. Their religion is nothing but human rules and traditions, which they have simply memorized. 
Isaac preferred Esau, because he enjoyed eating the animals Esau killed, but Rebecca preferred Jacob. 
Following the example of his ancestors, he sinned against the LORD. 
Arah — 775 
No one can claim that some things are worse than others, : for everything is good in its proper place. 
The clans of Ard and Naaman traced their descent from Bela. 
They despise those whom God rejects, : but honour those who obey the LORD. : They always do what they promise, : no matter how much it may cost. 
For some have claimed to possess it, and as a result they have lost the way of faith. : God's grace be with you all.
I did not see a temple in the city, because its temple is the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb. 
The life of every living thing is in the blood, and that is why the LORD has commanded that all blood be poured out on the altar to take away the people's sins. Blood, which is life, takes away sins. 
from Benhadad: “I will bring enough men to destroy this city of yours and carry off the rubble in their hands. May the gods strike me dead if I don't!” 
Festus spent another eight or ten days with them and then went to Caesarea. On the next day he sat down in the court of judgement and ordered Paul to be brought in. 
The second of the famous three was Eleazar son of Dodo, of the clan of Ahoh. One day he and David challenged the Philistines who had gathered for battle. The Israelites fell back, 
The army officer who was standing there in front of the cross saw how Jesus had died. “This man was really the Son of God!” he said. 
but he rejected Cain and his offering. Cain became furious, and he scowled in anger. 
You know everything I do; : from far away you understand all my thoughts. 
The disciples left and travelled through all the villages, preaching the Good News and healing people everywhere. 
The people of Moab will weep because of the troubles they suffer. They will all weep when they remember the fine food they used to eat in the city of Kir Heres. They will be driven to despair. 
“We have sinned, we have been evil, we have done wrong. We have rejected what you commanded us to do and have turned away from what you showed us was right. 
Rebuke Egypt, that wild animal in the reeds; : rebuke the nations, that herd of bulls with their calves, : until they all bow down and offer you their silver. : Scatter those people who love to make war! 
Do what your father tells you, my son, and never forget what your mother taught you. 
If a man has intercourse with his uncle's wife, he disgraces his uncle, and he and the woman will pay the penalty; neither of them will have children. 
Your servants love her, : even though she is destroyed; : they have pity on her, : even though she is in ruins. 
Abimelech ruled Israel for three years. 
The next day you are to take a male goat without any defects and offer it as a sacrifice for sin. Purify the altar with its blood in the same way as you did with the bull. 
When the Israelites saw the great power with which the LORD had defeated the Egyptians, they stood in awe of the LORD; and they had faith in the LORD and in his servant Moses.
Righteous Father! The world does not know you, but I know you, and these know that you sent me.  
When Abiathar son of Ahimelech escaped and joined David in Keilah, he took the ephod with him. 
he saves a person's life, : and gives him the joy of living. 
The towers and palaces will echo with the cries of hyenas and jackals. Babylon's time has come! Her days are almost over.”
On that same day two of Jesus' followers were going to a village named Emmaus, about eleven kilometres from Jerusalem, 
But David said, “You must not harm him! The LORD will certainly punish whoever harms his chosen king. 
With their bows and arrows they will kill the young men. They will show no mercy to babies and take no pity on children. 
So they went past Jebus and continued on their way. It was sunset when they came to Gibeah in the territory of the tribe of Benjamin. 
“Do not ill-treat foreigners who are living in your land. 
The men of Tekoa built the next section, but the leading men of the town refused to do the manual labour assigned to them by the supervisors. 
until the day he was taken up to heaven. Before he was taken up, he gave instructions by the power of the Holy Spirit to the men he had chosen as his apostles. 
The leaders of Jabesh said, “Give us seven days to send messengers throughout the land of Israel. If no one will help us, then we will surrender to you.” 
The wicked will not always rule over the land of the righteous; : if they did, the righteous themselves might do evil. 
The nations of the world were like a bird's nest, and I gathered their wealth as easily as gathering eggs. Not a wing fluttered to scare me off; no beak opened to scream at me!” 
Saul tried to pin David to the wall with his spear, but David dodged, and the spear stuck in the wall. David ran away and escaped. 
Long before this, when David had conquered Edom, Joab the commander of his army had gone there to bury the dead. He and his men remained in Edom six months, and during that time they killed every male in Edom 
Then the LORD gave the Israelites leaders who saved them from the raiders. 
The wicked are everywhere, : and everyone praises what is evil. : Keep us always safe, O LORD, : and preserve us from such people.
As a result, parents in Jerusalem will eat their children, and children will eat their parents. I will punish you and scatter in every direction any who are left alive. 
And wrongdoers will be repaid for the wrong things they do, because God judges everyone by the same standard.
and when the priests reached the river bank, the river began flowing once more and flooded its banks again. 
People may plan all kinds of things, but the LORD's will is going to be done. 
For if I were to make you sad, who would be left to cheer me up? Only the very persons I had made sad. 
But his mother said, “No! His name is to be John.” 
and will disappear from the earth. 
In the same way Moses also sprinkled the blood on the Sacred Tent and over all the things used in worship. 
The LORD says, “People of Israel, I think as much of the people of Ethiopia as I do of you. I brought the Philistines from Crete and the Syrians from Kir, just as I brought you from Egypt. 
In the fourth year that Jehoiakim son of Josiah was king of Judah, Baruch wrote down what I had dictated to him. Then I told him 
Samuel was loved by the Lord. As the Lord's prophet he established the kingdom and appointed rulers for the people. 
Twelve figures of lions were on the steps, one at either end of each step. No throne like this had ever existed in any other kingdom. 
Who closed the gates to hold back the sea : when it burst from the womb of the earth? 
I answered, “The God of Heaven will give us success. We are his servants, and we are going to start building. But you have no right to any property in Jerusalem, and you have no share in its traditions.”
When people criticize me, this is how I defend myself
He serves as High Priest in the Most Holy Place, that is, in the real tent which was put up by the Lord, not by human hands. 
You are my relatives, my own flesh and blood; why should you be the last to bring me back?” 
As soon as King Hezekiah heard their report, he tore his clothes in grief, put on sackcloth, and went to the Temple of the LORD. 
Nethanel, Raddai, 
Jacob continued, “Joseph, your two sons, who were born to you in Egypt before I came here, belong to me; Ephraim and Manasseh are just as much my sons as Reuben and Simeon. 
Use honest scales, honest weights, and honest measures. I am the LORD your God, and I brought you out of Egypt. 
The LORD says to his people, “Put on sackcloth and roll in ashes. Mourn with bitter tears as you would for an only son, because the one who comes to destroy you will suddenly attack. 
“If a man seduces a virgin who is not engaged, he must pay the bride price for her and marry her. 
All the Israelites obeyed and did what the LORD had commanded Moses and Aaron. 
I, the Sovereign LORD, solemnly promise that the surrounding nations will be humiliated. 
Will you be angry with us for ever? : Will your anger never cease? 
I will let your sons and daughters be sold to the people of Judah; they will sell them to the far-off Sabeans. I, the LORD, have spoken. 
And not to mention other things, every day I am under the pressure of my concern for all the churches. 
I went up to one of those standing there and asked him to explain it all. So he told me the meaning. 
When they returned to the crowd, a man came to Jesus, knelt before him, 
But don't listen to them, because there are more than forty men who will be hiding and waiting for him. They have taken a vow not to eat or drink until they have killed him. They are now ready to do it and are waiting for your decision.” 
Under his control all the different parts of the body fit together, and the whole body is held together by every joint with which it is provided. So when each separate part works as it should, the whole body grows and builds itself up through love. 
Praise him with trumpets. : Praise him with harps and lyres. 
“If anyone goes for advice to people who consult the spirits of the dead, I will turn against him and will no longer consider him one of my people. 
They retreated from the Israelites and ran towards the open country, but they could not escape. They were caught between the main army and the men who were now coming out of the city, and they were destroyed. 
But the LORD is king for ever; : he has set up his throne for judgement. 
My love, you are as beautiful as Jerusalem, : as lovely as the city of Tirzah, : as breathtaking as these great cities. 
But we do not know how it is that he is now able to see, nor do we know who cured him of his blindness. Ask him; he is old enough, and he can answer for himself!” 
The disciples did as Jesus had told them and prepared the Passover meal. 
For in your struggle against sin you have not yet had to resist to the point of being killed. 
You warned them to obey your teachings, : but in pride they rejected your laws, : although keeping your Law is the way to life. : Obstinate and stubborn, they refused to obey. 
But now listen to the vow that I, the LORD, have made in my mighty name to all you Israelites in Egypt: never again will I let any of you use my name to make a vow by saying, ‘I swear by the living Sovereign LORD!’ 
Saul and his men were on one side of the hill, separated from David and his men, who were on the other side. They were hurrying to get away from Saul and his men, who were closing in on them and were about to capture them. 
Please go on ahead of me, and I will follow slowly, going as fast as I can with the livestock and the children until I catch up with you in Edom.” 
When they persecute you in one town, run away to another one. I assure you that you will not finish your work in all the towns of Israel before the Son of Man comes. 
Then on the fourth day we went to the Temple, weighed the silver, the gold, and the utensils, and handed them over to Meremoth the priest, son of Uriah. With him were Eleazar son of Phinehas and two Levites, Jozabad son of Jeshua and Noadiah son of Binnui. 
“With whom will you compare me?” says the LORD. : “Is there anyone else like me? 
His descendants will become a great and mighty nation, and through him I will bless all the nations.  
At once the LORD God became angry with Uzzah and killed him because of his irreverence. Uzzah died there beside the Covenant Box, 
They have gone back to the sins of their ancestors, who refused to do what I said; they have worshipped other gods. Both Israel and Judah have broken the covenant that I made with their ancestors. 
They are the people I made for myself, : and they will sing my praises!” 
“I am the high and holy God, who lives for ever. I live in a high and holy place, but I also live with people who are humble and repentant, so that I can restore their confidence and hope. 
The LORD spoke to me again. 
“Israel is not a slave; : he was not born into slavery. : Why then do his enemies hunt him down? 
For the Son of Man is about to come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he will reward each one according to his deeds.  
They still could not believe, they were so full of joy and wonder; so he asked them, “Have you anything here to eat?”  
Seth had a son whom he named Enosh. It was then that people began using the LORD's holy name in worship.
The tribe of Manasseh did not drive out the people living in the cities of Beth Shan, Taanach, Dor, Ibleam, Megiddo, and the nearby towns; the Canaanites continued to live there. 
Matthew and Thomas, James son of Alphaeus, and Simon (who was called the Patriot), 
“What do you advise me to do?” he asked. “What shall I say to the people who are asking me to make their burdens lighter?” 
I prayed to the LORD, and he answered me; : he freed me from all my fears. 
On a chosen day Herod put on his royal robes, sat on his throne, and made a speech to the people. 
Here I am. If I have done anything wrong, accuse me now in the presence of the LORD and the king he has chosen. Have I taken anybody's cow or anybody's donkey? Have I cheated or oppressed anyone? Have I accepted a bribe from anyone? If I have done any of these things, I will pay back what I have taken.” 
We will always praise you : and give thanks to you for ever. 
They don't turn to God, who makes us wise, : wiser than any animal or bird. 
“Your brother will rise to life,” Jesus told her. 
They lift it to their shoulders and carry it; : they put it in place, and there it stands, : unable to move from where it is. : If anyone prays to it, it cannot answer : or save him from disaster. 
He left in the land of Judah some of the poorest people, who owned no property, and he gave them vineyards and fields. 
I have come down among the almond trees : to see the young plants in the valley, : to see the new leaves on the vines : and the blossoms on the pomegranate trees. 
First comes Benjamin, the smallest tribe, : then the leaders of Judah with their group, : followed by the leaders of Zebulun and Naphtali. 
Simeon had five sons: Nemuel, Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, and Shaul. 
But these people attack with insults anything they do not understand; and those things that they know by instinct, like wild animals, are the very things that destroy them. 
The next day Agrippa and Bernice came with great pomp and ceremony and entered the audience hall with the military chiefs and the leading men of the city. Festus gave the order, and Paul was brought in. 
Hadad won the friendship of the king, and the king gave his sister-in-law, the sister of Queen Tahpenes, to Hadad in marriage. 
Did you make them leap like locusts : and frighten people with their snorting? 
“Listen to this, you that ignore me, : or I will destroy you, : and there will be no one to save you. 
In the night I remember you, LORD, : and I think about your law. 
The LORD will cause the emperor to hear a rumour that will make him go back to his own country, and the LORD will have him killed there.” 
Finally Job broke the silence and cursed the day on which he had been born. 
Our life is cut short by your anger; : it fades away like a whisper. 
However, as the scripture says: : “What no one ever saw or heard, : what no one ever thought could happen, : is the very thing God prepared for those who love him.” 
He commands snow to fall on the earth, : and sends torrents of drenching rain. 
Never, as long as you live, give anyone power over you — whether son, wife, brother, or friend. Don't give your property to anyone; you might change your mind and have to ask for it back. 
You have given us sorrow to eat, : a large cup of tears to drink. 
From Jude, servant of Jesus Christ, and brother of James — : To those who have been called by God, who live in the love of God the Father and the protection of Jesus Christ
I am less than the least of all God's people; yet God gave me this privilege of taking to the Gentiles the Good News about the infinite riches of Christ, 
and Asa and his troops pursued them as far as Gerar. So many of the Ethiopians were killed that the army was unable to rally and fight. They were overpowered by the LORD and his army, and the army took large amounts of loot. 
Now set the empty bronze pot on the coals and let it get red-hot. Then the pot will be ritually pure again after the corrosion is burnt off, 
“You came to my rescue, Lord, and saved my life. 
These sixteen are the descendants of Jacob by Zilpah, the slave woman whom Laban gave to his daughter Leah. 
and the LORD said to me, “This gate will stay closed and will never be opened. No human being is allowed to use it, because I, the LORD God of Israel, have entered through it. It is to remain closed. 
“Now tell your fellow-exiles what I am saying. I am the one who sent them to live in far-off nations and scattered them in other countries. Yet, for the time being I will be present with them in the lands where they have gone. 
The LORD said, “If you will not obey my commands, you will be punished. 
They found plenty of fertile pasture lands there in a stretch of open country that was quiet and peaceful. The people who had lived there before were Hamites. 
and you claim that if you had lived during the time of your ancestors, you would not have done what they did and killed the prophets.  
The people there saw him walking and praising God, 
This is what the Sovereign LORD says: “On the day when the tree goes to the world of the dead, I will make the underground waters cover it as a sign of mourning. I will hold back the rivers and not let the many streams flow out. Because the tree has died, I will bring darkness over the Lebanon Mountains and make all the trees of the forest wither. 
Ephraim was to the south, and Manasseh was to the north, with the Mediterranean Sea as their western border. Asher was to the north-west, and Issachar to the north-east. 
Listen, all of you, to the voice of God, : to the thunder that comes from his mouth. 
And then they say to others, ‘Keep away from us; we are too holy for you to touch!’ I cannot stand people like that — my anger against them is like a fire that never goes out. 
He will destroy the fortresses of Moab with their high walls and bring them tumbling down into the dust.
the field is the world; the good seed is the people who belong to the Kingdom; the weeds are the people who belong to the Evil One;  
Protect me, O God; I trust in you for safety. 
This is a message about Moab. : The cities of Ar and Kir are destroyed in a single night, and silence covers the land of Moab. 
Tell him that I, the LORD, say to him, ‘After murdering the man, are you taking over his property as well?’ Tell him that this is what I say: ‘In the very place that the dogs licked up Naboth's blood they will lick up your blood!’ ” 
Ammiel, Issachar, and Peullethai. 
God gives great victories to his king; : he shows constant love to the one he has chosen, : to David and his descendants for ever.
When we filled these wineskins, they were new, but look! They are torn. Our clothes and sandals are worn out from the long journey.” 
They will spread out like fine dust over all the land of Egypt, and everywhere they will produce boils that become open sores on the people and the animals.” 
Jesus' mother then told the servants, “Do whatever he tells you.” 
The LORD said, “Now, mortal man, look at the women among your people who make up predictions. Denounce them 
Absalom fled and went to the king of Geshur, Talmai son of Ammihud, and stayed there three years. David mourned a long time for his son Amnon; 
Does a young woman forget her jewellery, or a bride her wedding dress? But my people have forgotten me for more days than can be counted. 
The great trumpet will sound, and he will send out his angels to the four corners of the earth, and they will gather his chosen people from one end of the world to the other. 
But now I am going to gather them together and punish them. Soon they will writhe in pain, when the emperor of Assyria oppresses them. 
I am speaking the truth; I belong to Christ and I do not lie. My conscience, ruled by the Holy Spirit, also assures me that I am not lying 
He shall offer a bull as a sacrifice to take away his own sins and those of his family. 
After a while it grows up and becomes the biggest of all plants. It puts out such large branches that the birds come and make their nests in its shade.” 
Murderers roam through the countryside; : we risk our lives when we look for food. 
Do not go to Beersheba to worship. Do not try to find me at Bethel — Bethel will come to nothing. Do not go to Gilgal — her people are doomed to exile.” 
One of the disciples, the one whom Jesus loved, was sitting next to Jesus. 
“If it please Your Majesty, and if you care about me and if it seems right to you, please issue a proclamation to prevent Haman's orders from being carried out — those orders that the son of Hammedatha the descendant of Agag gave for the destruction of all the Jews in the empire. 
Is evil the payment for good? Yet they have dug a pit for me to fall in. Remember how I came to you and spoke on their behalf, so that you would not deal with them in anger. 
Sing praises to the LORD! : Play music on the harps! 
Come, O God, and rule the world; : all the nations are yours.
Joshua and his men pretended that they were retreating, and ran away towards the barren country. 
But the Levites shall camp round the Tent to guard it, so that no one may come near and cause my anger to strike the community of Israel.” 
The wicked say to themselves, “God doesn't care! : He has closed his eyes and will never see me!” 
Come to me, all you that want me, : and eat your fill of my fruit. 
As a matter of fact, it may save their lives. 
Your people captured fortified cities, : fertile land, houses full of wealth, : cisterns already dug, : olive trees, fruit trees, and vineyards. : They ate all they wanted and grew fat; : they enjoyed all the good things you gave them. 
As he walked along, he saw a tax collector, Levi son of Alphaeus, sitting in his office. Jesus said to him, “Follow me.” Levi got up and followed him. 
Those were the descendants of Aaron in their splendid garments, standing before the whole assembly of Israel, holding in their hands the offering made to the Lord. 
Why does God let evil people live, : let them grow old and prosper? 
Then Jesus spoke to the crowd, “Did you have to come with swords and clubs to capture me, as though I were an outlaw? Every day I sat down and taught in the Temple, and you did not arrest me.  
Abraham answered, “Accept these seven lambs. By doing this, you admit that I am the one who dug this well.” 
When the people heard what the Law required, they were so moved that they began to cry. So Nehemiah, who was the governor, Ezra, the priest and scholar of the Law, and the Levites who were explaining the Law told all the people, “This day is holy to the LORD your God, so you are not to mourn or cry. 
hoping to eat the bits of food that fell from the rich man's table. Even the dogs would come and lick his sores. 
Offer with them all the other offerings required for the first day. 
On the fourth day offer ten young bulls, two rams, and fourteen one-year-old male lambs, all without any defects. 
even if Noah, Danel, and Job lived there — as surely as I, the Sovereign LORD, am the living God — they would not be able to save even their own children. Their goodness would save only their own lives.” 
Take along all kinds of food for you and for them.” 
He has remembered to show mercy to Abraham : and to all his descendants for ever!” 
He composed 3,000 proverbs and more than a thousand songs. 
“On that day,” says the LORD, “you will hear the sound of crying at the Fish Gate in Jerusalem. You will hear wailing in the newer part of the city and a great crashing sound in the hills. 
I will set fire to Egypt, and Pelusium will be in agony. The walls of Thebes will be broken down, and the city will be flooded.  
“He will be followed by another king, who will send an officer to oppress the people with taxes in order to increase the wealth of his kingdom. In a short time that king will be killed, but not publicly and not in battle.” 
So they looked up and saw no one there but Jesus. 
This time I will punish not only your officials and your people, but I will punish you as well, so that you may know that there is no one like me in all the world. 
This means that he had to become like his brothers and sisters in every way, in order to be their faithful and merciful High Priest in his service to God, so that the people's sins would be forgiven. 
They answered, “Our quarrel with Saul and his family can't be settled with silver or gold, nor do we want to kill any Israelite.” : “What, then, do you think I should do for you?” David asked. 
It was to this that God called you, for Christ himself suffered for you and left you an example, so that you would follow in his steps. 
Choose righteous people for your dinner companions. Your chief pride should be your fear of the Lord. 
God is to be trusted, the God who called you to have fellowship with his Son Jesus Christ, our Lord. 
The king and the leaders of the nation told the Levites to sing to the LORD the songs of praise that were written by David and by Asaph the prophet. So everyone sang with great joy as they knelt and worshipped God. 
A voice said from the cloud, “This is my Son, whom I have chosen — listen to him!” 
This inner room was nine metres long, nine metres wide, and nine metres high, all covered with pure gold. The altar was covered with cedar panels.  
Then suppose she marries another man, 
Samuel said to him, “The LORD has torn the kingdom of Israel away from you today and given it to someone who is a better man than you. 
The LORD said, “A day is coming when Israel's greatness will come to an end, and its wealth will be replaced by poverty. 
Spare my life, O God, and save me, : and I will gladly proclaim your righteousness. 
He covered its top, all four sides, and its projections with pure gold and put a gold border round it. 
Then Tattenai the governor, Shethar Bozenai, and their fellow-officials did exactly as the emperor had commanded. 
Then he bent over again and wrote on the ground. 
the land of the Gebalites; all of Lebanon to the east, from Baalgad, which is south of Mount Hermon, to Hamath Pass. 
Abner went to the leaders of Israel and said to them, “For a long time you have wanted David to be your king. 
I would have been ashamed to ask the emperor for a troop of cavalry to guard us from any enemies during our journey, because I had told him that our God blesses everyone who trusts him, but that he is displeased with and punishes anyone who turns away from him. 
Don't listen to them! Submit to the king of Babylonia and you will live! Why should this city become a pile of ruins? 
Our ancestors in Egypt did not understand God's wonderful acts; : they forgot the many times he showed them his love, : and they rebelled against the Almighty at the Red Sea. 
King Solomon is carried on a throne : made of the finest wood. 
“While I was praying in the city of Joppa, I had a vision. I saw something coming down that looked like a large sheet being lowered by its four corners from heaven, and it stopped next to me. 
“I am the LORD, and I do not change. And so you, the descendants of Jacob, are not yet completely lost. 
The High Priest asked Stephen, “Is this true?” 
Pay attention, my child, and listen to my wisdom and insight. 
Jared was the father of Enoch, who was the father of Methuselah; Methuselah was the father of Lamech, 
And when people serve Christ in this way, they please God and are approved by others. 
I will make the Egyptians so stubborn that they will go in after them, and I will gain honour by my victory over the king, his army, his chariots, and his drivers. 
I ask you, is it right for a person to cheat God? Of course not, yet you are cheating me. ‘How?’ you ask. In the matter of tithes and offerings. 
Above everything, love one another earnestly, because love covers over many sins. 
They will not live to see rivers of olive oil : or streams that flow with milk and honey. 
We use it to give thanks to our Lord and Father and also to curse other people, who are created in the likeness of God. 
He put singers at the altar to provide beautiful music. 
I advise you, then, to buy gold from me, pure gold, in order to be rich. Buy also white clothing to dress yourself and cover up your shameful nakedness. Buy also some ointment to put on your eyes, so that you may see.  
the wicked may grow like weeds, : those who do wrong may prosper; : yet they will be totally destroyed, 
Let sinners bear their own punishment; : let them feel the wrath of Almighty God. 
Why did you break down the fences round it? : Now anyone passing by can steal its grapes; 
I was angry and made a solemn promise: : ‘You will never enter the land : where I would have given you rest.’ ”
If your whole body is full of light, with no part of it in darkness, it will be bright all over, as when a lamp shines on you with its brightness.” 
The LORD says, “I am making a new earth and new heavens. The events of the past will be completely forgotten. 
See how many enemies I have; : see how much they hate me. 
So Samson took hold of the two middle pillars holding up the building. Putting one hand on each pillar, he pushed against them 
This is the list of the priestly clans that returned from exile
They stripped her naked, seized her sons and daughters, and then killed her with a sword. Women everywhere gossiped about her fate. 
Twist and groan, people of Jerusalem, like a woman giving birth, for now you will have to leave the city and live in the open country. You will have to go to Babylon, but there the LORD will save you from your enemies. 
It will be the end of those who oppress others and show contempt for God. Every sinner will be destroyed. 
I, John, have heard and seen all these things. And when I finished hearing and seeing them, I fell down at the feet of the angel who had shown me these things, and I was about to worship him. 
If you come with us, we will share with you all the blessings that the LORD gives us.” 
But do not let him or her persuade you; do not even listen to them. Show them no mercy or pity, and do not protect them. 
and said, “I assure you that unless you change and become like children, you will never enter the Kingdom of heaven.  
“We can,” they answered. : Jesus said to them, “You will indeed drink the cup I must drink and be baptized in the way I must be baptized.  
Suddenly a fierce storm hit the lake, and the boat was in danger of sinking. But Jesus was asleep. 
Dilean, Mizpah, Joktheel, 
On that day they offered sacrifices to the LORD from the loot they had brought back: 700 head of cattle and 7,000 sheep. 
You bring them in and plant them on your mountain, : the place that you, LORD, have chosen for your home, : the Temple that you yourself have built. 
A second time Jesus said to him, “Simon son of John, do you love me?” : “Yes, Lord,” he answered, “you know that I love you.” : Jesus said to him, “Take care of my sheep.”  
During all their wanderings they could see the cloud of the LORD's presence over the Tent during the day and a fire burning above it during the night.
Even though I was the one who brought them up and made them strong, they plotted against me. 
You made a solemn promise to David — : a promise you will not take back: : “I will make one of your sons king, : and he will rule after you. 
Then the angel, who looked like a human being, stretched out his hand and touched my lips. I said to him, “Sir, this vision makes me so weak that I can't stop trembling. 
Jesus answered, “If I were to honour myself, that honour would be worth nothing. The one who honours me is my Father — the very one you say is your God.  
Speaking can bring you either honour or disgrace; what you say can ruin you. 
So the men went all over the land and set down in writing how they divided it into seven parts, making a list of the towns. Then they went back to Joshua in the camp at Shiloh. 
When King David arrived at Bahurim, one of Saul's relatives, Shimei son of Gera, came out to meet him, cursing him as he came. 
They took all the altars that had been used in Jerusalem for offering sacrifices and burning incense and threw them into the valley of the Kidron. 
From that day on the Jewish authorities made plans to kill Jesus. 
He said, “These four huge beasts are four empires which will arise on earth. 
as he said to them, “This passage of scripture has come true today, as you heard it being read.” 
When the news of Israel's victories reached King Jabin of Hazor, he sent word to King Jobab of Madon, to the kings of Shimron and Achshaph, 
Two women will be grinding corn together: one will be taken away, the other will be left behind.” 
I know that our LORD is great, : greater than all the gods. 
Then he said to Uriah, “Go home and rest a while.” Uriah left, and David sent a present to his home. 
but he ran away naked, leaving the cloth behind. 
The Persians trembled at her daring; : the Medes were amazed at her bravery. 
The LORD will raise a signal flag to show the nations that he is gathering together again the scattered people of Israel and Judah and bringing them back from the four corners of the earth. 
or else like a lion they will carry me off : where no one can save me, : and there they will tear me to pieces. 
You know that your bodies are parts of the body of Christ. Shall I take a part of Christ's body and make it part of the body of a prostitute? Impossible! 
they were afraid, and said, “A god has come into their camp! We're lost! Nothing like this has ever happened to us before! 
Benhadad agreed to Asa's proposal and sent his commanding officers and their armies to attack the cities of Israel. They captured Ijon, Dan, Abel Beth Maacah, and all the cities of Naphtali where supplies were stored. 
Heshbon, and Jazer.
O God, it is right for us to praise you in Zion : and keep our promises to you, 
So when this takes place, and the mortal has been changed into the immortal, then the scripture will come true: “Death is destroyed; victory is complete!” 
(These guardrooms on each side of the passage were all the same size, and the walls between them were all of the same thickness.) 
If you are wise, you will be careful in everything you do. When sin is all round you, be especially careful that you do not become guilty. 
The king's favour is like the clouds that bring rain in the springtime — life is there. 
“Listen!” says Jesus. “I am coming soon! Happy are those who obey the prophetic words in this book!” 
The Most High assigned nations their lands; : he determined where peoples should live. : He assigned to each nation a heavenly being, 
The LORD said to him, “Your descendants will be strangers in a foreign land; they will be slaves there and will be treated cruelly for 400 years. 
“If you do not obey faithfully all God's teachings that are written in this book and if you do not honour the wonderful and awesome name of the LORD your God, 
Then this same prophet went to another man and said, “Hit me!” This man did so; he hit him a hard blow and hurt him. 
When Jesus began his work, he was about thirty years old. He was the son, so people thought, of Joseph, who was the son of Heli, 
Has anyone ever been shown where Wisdom originates? : Does anyone understand her subtle cleverness? 
Those who are good travel a road that avoids evil; so watch where you are going — it may save your life. 
In the same way, twelve towns in the territories of Reuben, Gad, and Zebulun were assigned to the clan of Merari, family by family. 
Be a shepherd to your people, LORD, the people you have chosen. Although they live apart in the wilderness, there is fertile land around them. Let them go and feed in the rich pastures of Bashan and Gilead, as they did long ago. 
The LORD made rivers dry up completely : and stopped springs from flowing. 
The tribe of Ephraim did not drive out the Canaanites living in the city of Gezer, and so the Canaanites continued to live there with them. 
Nebuchadnezzar will come and defeat Egypt. Those people who are doomed to die of disease will die of disease, those doomed to be taken away as prisoners will be taken away as prisoners, and those doomed to be killed in war will be killed in war. 
The LORD says to Israel, : “Long ago I predicted what would take place; : then suddenly I made it happen. 
“Have you never heard that I planned all this long ago? And now I have carried it out. I gave you the power to turn fortified cities into piles of rubble. 
from death itself; : from vicious slander reported to the king. 
The man shall put his hand on the head of the animal and kill it at the entrance of the Tent of the LORD's presence. The Aaronite priests shall throw the blood against all four sides of the altar 
So Abimelech and all his men made their move at night and hid outside Shechem in four groups. 
They speak evil of God in heaven : and give arrogant orders to everyone on earth, 
Before their time is up they will wither, : wither like a branch and never be green again. 
When you sit down to eat with someone important, keep in mind who he is.  
He had hardly finished saying this, when the king arrived and said, “It's the LORD who has brought this trouble on us! Why should I wait any longer for him to do something?”
Amasa went to call them, but he did not get back by the time the king had set. 
From the Elder — : To my dear Gaius, whom I truly love. 
On the contrary, we cannot do without the parts of the body that seem to be weaker; 
Then, a new king, who knew nothing about Joseph, came to power in Egypt. 
Those who trust in the LORD will possess the land, : but the wicked will be driven out. 
Don't take a purse or a beggar's bag or shoes; don't stop to greet anyone on the road.  
I think of days gone by : and remember years of long ago. 
The LORD says, : “When Israel was a child, I loved him : and called him out of Egypt as my son. 
and they will throw them into the fiery furnace, where they will cry and grind their teeth.  
So don't go looking about in the streets or wandering round in the run-down parts of town. 
They shouted back, “Kill him! Kill him! Crucify him!” : Pilate asked them, “Do you want me to crucify your king?” : The chief priests answered, “The only king we have is the Emperor!” 
the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Rephaim, 
So it was that she became pregnant and gave birth to a son. She named him Samuel, and explained, “I asked the LORD for him.” 
To get food enough to stay alive, : we went begging to Egypt and Assyria. 
Early in the morning the chief priests met hurriedly with the elders, the teachers of the Law, and the whole Council, and made their plans. They put Jesus in chains, led him away, and handed him over to Pilate. 
And the LORD continued, “Mortal man, tell the people of Israel about the Temple, and let them study its plan. Make them ashamed of their sinful actions. 
Caleb silenced the people who were complaining against Moses, and said, “We should attack now and take the land; we are strong enough to conquer it.” 
As thousands of people crowded together, so that they were stepping on each other, Jesus said first to his disciples, “Be on guard against the yeast of the Pharisees — I mean their hypocrisy.  
Do not hand over any of your children to be used in the worship of the god Molech, because that would bring disgrace on the name of God, the LORD. 
so he sent word to Rahab: “The men in your house have come to spy out the whole country! Bring them out!” 
“The Master needs it,” they answered, 
There was a servant of Saul's family named Ziba, and he was told to go to David. “Are you Ziba?” the king asked. : “At your service, sir,” he answered. 
When the apostles learnt about it, they fled to the cities of Lystra and Derbe in Lycaonia and to the surrounding territory. 
It is better to be an ordinary person working for a living than to play the part of someone great but go hungry. 
“Give the signal to attack! Blow the trumpet so that the nations can hear! Prepare the nations for war against Babylonia! Tell the kingdoms of Ararat, Minni, and Ashkenaz to attack. Appoint an officer to lead the attack. Bring up the horses like a swarm of locusts. 
Keep your lives free from the love of money, and be satisfied with what you have. For God has said, “I will never leave you; I will never abandon you.” 
They said to Moses, “We explored the land and found it to be rich and fertile; and here is some of its fruit. 
who bore him a son. Moses said to himself, “I am a foreigner in this land, and so I name him Gershom.” 
All the nations that assemble to attack Jerusalem will be like a starving person who dreams he is eating and wakes up hungry, or like someone dying of thirst who dreams he is drinking and wakes with a dry throat. 
Jesus answered, “The man who sowed the good seed is the Son of Man;  
Once a man came to Jesus. “Teacher,” he asked, “what good thing must I do to receive eternal life?” 
While he was praying, his face changed its appearance, and his clothes became dazzling white. 
He must be hospitable and love what is good. He must be self-controlled, upright, holy, and disciplined. 
“If anyone should cause one of these little ones to lose his faith in me, it would be better for that person to have a large millstone tied round his neck and be drowned in the deep sea.  
and from there they went on to Nahaliel, and from Nahaliel to Bamoth, 
But instead, you carried out your sentence gradually, to give them a chance to repent, even though you knew that they came from evil stock, that they had been wicked since birth, and that they would never change their way of thinking. 
There is a fragrance about you; : the sound of your name recalls it. : No woman could help loving you. 
The Levites and the people of Judah carried out Jehoiada's instructions. The men were not dismissed when they went off duty on the Sabbath, so the commanders had available both those coming on duty and those going off. 
The basket had a lid made of lead. As I watched, the lid was raised, and there in the basket sat a woman! 
and Elisha said to her, “By this time next year you will be holding a son in your arms.” : “Oh!” she exclaimed. “Please, sir, don't lie to me. You are a man of God!” 
Isaac began to tremble and shake all over, and he asked, “Who was it, then, who killed an animal and brought it to me? I ate it just before you came. I gave him my final blessing, and so it is his for ever.” 
Jesus spoke up and said to him, “Simon, I have something to tell you.” : “Yes, Teacher,” he said, “tell me.” 
The parts do not crowd one another, : and they never disobey his word. 
Your insight and understanding will protect you 
She was soon to give birth, and the pains and suffering of childbirth made her cry out. 
Those who first heard the Good News did not receive that rest, because they did not believe. There are, then, others who are allowed to receive it. 
Listen to what the poor have to say, and answer them politely. 
Since Ahaziah was related to King Ahab by marriage, he sinned against the LORD, just as Ahab's family did. 
The priest shall take some of the blood of the lamb and put it on the lobe of the right ear, on the thumb of the right-hand, and on the big toe of the right foot of the one who is to be declared ritually clean. 
There in Egypt at his command the disaster struck. The Lord made kings hold him in respect. The Lord gave him his commands for his people and showed him the dazzling light of his presence. 
Jeiel founded the city of Gibeon and settled there. His wife was named Maacah. 
So Moses agreed to live there, and Jethro gave him his daughter Zipporah in marriage, 
he said, “I will hear you when your accusers arrive.” Then he gave orders for Paul to be kept under guard in the governor's headquarters.
While he was talking, I fell to the ground unconscious. But he took hold of me, raised me to my feet, 
To worry yourself to death with resentment : would be a foolish, senseless thing to do. 
While I slept, my heart was awake. : I dreamt my lover knocked at the door. : Let me come in, my darling, : my sweetheart, my dove. : My head is wet with dew, : and my hair is damp from the mist. 
The wall will collapse, and everyone will ask you what good the whitewash did.” 
Such people are too stupid to know what they are doing. They close their eyes and their minds to the truth. 
When things are going well, people don't think about hard times; and when things are going badly, they forget about prosperity. 
Let us conduct ourselves properly, as people who live in the light of day — no orgies or drunkenness, no immorality or indecency, no fighting or jealousy. 
The LORD said to me, 
but you will never build it. It is your son, your own son, who will build my temple.’ 
Then Raguel praised the God of heaven: : “You are worthy of our praise, O God. : May your people praise you for ever, : may they praise you with pure hearts. 
No one can keep from dying or put off the day of death. That is a battle we cannot escape; we cannot cheat our way out. 
“Bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance of the Tent, and tell them to take a ritual bath. 
If he has no brothers, his father's brothers are to inherit it. 
Inside your Temple, O God, : we think of your constant love. 
In the second year that Darius was emperor, on the 24th day of the eleventh month (the month of Shebat), the LORD gave me a message in a vision at night. 
That was how Jehu wiped out the worship of Baal in Israel. 
and to go through Potsherd Gate out to the Valley of Hinnom. There I was to proclaim the message that he would give me. 
On the seventh day he shall again shave his head, his beard, his eyebrows, and all the rest of the hair on his body; he shall wash his clothes and have a bath, and then he will be ritually clean. 
I will make cedars grow in the desert, : and acacias and myrtles and olive trees. : Forests will grow in barren land, : forests of pine and juniper and cypress. 
So Jesus went back with them to Nazareth, where he was obedient to them. His mother treasured all these things in her heart. 
Then it will turn southwards towards Akrabbim Pass and continue on through Zin as far south as Kadesh Barnea. Then it will turn north-west to Hazar Addar and on to Azmon, 
Before I was born, the LORD appointed me; : he made me his servant to bring back his people, : to bring back the scattered people of Israel. : The LORD gives me honour; : he is the source of my strength. 
The law is weak and useless, and justice is never done. Evil people get the better of the righteous, and so justice is perverted. 
they fell in the middle of the camp : all round the tents. 
Day and night I cry, : and tears are my only food; : all the time my enemies ask me, : “Where is your God?” 
His officials placed his body in a chariot and took it back to Jerusalem, where he was buried in the royal tombs. : The people of Judah chose Josiah's son Joahaz and anointed him king. 
To replace them, Rehoboam made bronze shields and entrusted them to the officers responsible for guarding the palace gates. 
Now you will have plenty to eat, and be satisfied. : You will praise the LORD your God, : who has done wonderful things for you. : My people will never be despised again. 
The time came for Joseph and Mary to perform the ceremony of purification, as the Law of Moses commanded. So they took the child to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord, 
But a widowed or divorced daughter who has no children and who has returned to live in her father's house as a dependant may eat the food her father receives as a priest. Only a member of a priestly family may eat any of it. 
Listen to what I am saying; : that is all the comfort I ask from you. 
David appointed some of the Levites to lead the worship of the LORD, the God of Israel, in front of the Covenant Box, by singing and praising him. 
After that, Saul stopped pursuing the Philistines, and they went back to their own territory. 
Ahaz answered, “I will not ask for a sign. I refuse to put the LORD to the test.” 
In the third year that Belshazzar was king, I saw a second vision.  
along with some towns and villages that were within the borders of Manasseh, but given to the Ephraimites. 
Then there was war in the land : when the Israelites chose new gods. : Of the 40,000 men in Israel, : did anyone carry shield or spear? 
Above the Box were the winged creatures representing God's presence, with their wings spread over the place where sins were forgiven. But now is not the time to explain everything in detail. 
Then I said, “Stop, Sovereign LORD! How can your people survive? They are so small and weak!” 
Every day I served one ox, six of the best sheep, and many chickens, and every ten days I provided a fresh supply of wine. But I knew what heavy burdens the people had to bear, so I did not claim the allowance that the governor is entitled to. 
Think about it! Some day you will die, and your body will decay. So give up hate and live by the Lord's commands, 
Please give us this land as our property, and do not make us cross the River Jordan and settle there.” 
And if the people of Israel will obey all my commands and keep the whole Law that my servant Moses gave them, then I will not allow them to be driven out of the land that I gave to their ancestors.” 
except Hadad and some of his father's Edomite servants, who escaped to Egypt. (At that time Hadad was just a child.) 
People came to Egypt from all over the world to buy corn from Joseph, because the famine was severe everywhere.
A man should fulfil his duty as a husband, and a woman should fulfil her duty as a wife, and each should satisfy the other's needs. 
You should not bring a lawsuit against a judge. He will win because of his position. 
But I will watch for the LORD; I will wait confidently for God, who will save me. My God will hear me. 
Don't argue with someone who talks too much; you will just be adding fuel to his fire. 
So everyone was happy — the people of Judah, the priests, the Levites, the people who had come from the north, and the foreigners who had settled permanently in Israel and Judah. 
The bridegroom is the one to whom the bride belongs; but the bridegroom's friend, who stands by and listens, is glad when he hears the bridegroom's voice. This is how my own happiness is made complete. 
while Paul chose Silas and left, commended by the believers to the care of the Lord's grace. 
I will cover his enemies with shame, : but his kingdom will prosper and flourish.”
He was a prophet, and he knew what God had promised him: God had made a vow that he would make one of David's descendants a king, just as David was. 
Out of one of these four horns grew a little horn, whose power extended towards the south and the east and towards the Promised Land. 
He realizes what he is doing and stops sinning, so he will certainly not die, but go on living. 
all the territory of Philistia and Geshur, 
Month after month I have nothing to live for; : night after night brings me grief. 
All of us fell to the ground, and I heard a voice say to me in Hebrew, ‘Saul, Saul! Why are you persecuting me? You are hurting yourself by hitting back, like an ox kicking against its owner's stick.’  
Then Jesus returned to Galilee, and the power of the Holy Spirit was with him. The news about him spread throughout all that territory. 
Clap your hands, you rivers; : you hills, sing together with joy before the LORD, 
and I was overcome with anxiety. : The more I thought, the more troubled I became; : I could not keep from asking
How we laughed, how we sang for joy! : Then the other nations said about us, : “The LORD did great things for them.” 
The stones of the earth contain sapphires, : And its dust contains gold. 
If you return to the LORD, then those who have taken your relatives away as prisoners will take pity on them and let them come back home. The LORD your God is kind and merciful, and if you return to him, he will accept you.” 
If I had raised my hand to strike you and your people with disease, you would have been completely destroyed. 
From Paul, who was called by the will of God to be an apostle of Christ Jesus, and from our brother Sosthenes — 
But he did not invite me, sir, or Zadok the priest, or Benaiah, or Solomon. 
When Babylon falls, there will be such a noise that the entire earth will shake, and the cries of alarm will be heard by the other nations.”
A man may rise from poverty to become king of his country, or go from prison to the throne,
This made Elisha angry, and he said to the king, “You should have struck five or six times, and then you would have won complete victory over the Syrians; but now you will defeat them only three times.” 
and Abraham gave him a tenth of all he had taken. (The first meaning of Melchizedek's name is “King of Righteousness”; and because he was king of Salem, his name also means “King of Peace”.) 
All of us who are spiritually mature should have this same attitude. But if some of you have a different attitude, God will make this clear to you. 
Be ready tomorrow morning, and come up Mount Sinai to meet me there at the top. 
Like those who would mock a cripple, : they glared at me with hate. 
Weep and wail, cypress trees — : the cedars have fallen; : those glorious trees have been destroyed! : Weep and wail, oaks of Bashan — : the dense forest has been cut down! 
Then hold back from speaking evil : and from telling lies. 
She asked me to let her follow the workers and pick up the corn. She has been working since early morning and has just now stopped to rest for a while under the shelter.” 
So God said, “Very well. I will let you use cow dung instead, and you can bake your bread on that.” 
in the third row, a turquoise, an agate, and an amethyst; 
How you will cry and grind your teeth when you see Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets in the Kingdom of God, while you are thrown out!  
The Jewish Law is not a full and faithful model of the real things; it is only a faint outline of the good things to come. The same sacrifices are offered for ever, year after year. How can the Law, then, by means of these sacrifices make perfect the people who come to God? 
Praise the LORD's glorious name; : bow down before the Holy One when he appears. 
David prayed, “O God, I am the one who did wrong. I am the one who ordered the census. What have these poor people done? LORD, my God, punish me and my family, and spare your people.” 
I was like a tree whose roots always have water : and whose branches are wet with dew. 
Can any of you live a bit longer  by worrying about it?  
However, Ebedmelech the Ethiopian, a eunuch who worked in the royal palace, heard that they had put me in the well. At that time the king was holding court at the Benjamin Gate. 
But children born of adultery or of a forbidden union will die an early death. 
of betraying secrets. : These are times when it is proper for you to be ashamed, and people will respect you for it.
For Christ did not go into a Holy Place made by human hands, which was a copy of the real one. He went into heaven itself, where he now appears on our behalf in the presence of God. 
I call God as my witness — he knows my heart! It was in order to spare you that I decided not to go to Corinth. 
If they pronounce a guilty person innocent, they will be cursed and hated by everyone. 
Whoever tries to escape the terror will fall into the pits, and whoever climbs out of the pits will be caught in the traps, because the LORD has set the time for Moab's destruction. 
She makes bedspreads and wears clothes of fine purple linen. 
But she asked her father, “Do this one thing for me. Leave me alone for two months, so that I can go with my friends to wander in the mountains and grieve that I must die a virgin.” 
If the bull kills a boy or a girl, the same rule applies. 
King Solomon also had 4,000 stalls for his chariots and horses, and had 12,000 cavalry horses. Some of them he kept in Jerusalem and the rest he stationed in various other cities. 
May the king's name never be forgotten; : may his fame last as long as the sun. : May all nations ask God to bless them : as he has blessed the king. 
The people of Israel left Rameses and set up camp at Sukkoth. 
Be careful how you think; your life is shaped by your thoughts. 
They followed Jeroboam and continued to practise all the sins he had committed, 
Count seven full weeks from the day after the Sabbath on which you bring your sheaf of corn to present to the LORD. 
To have faith is to be sure of the things we hope for, to be certain of the things we cannot see. 
Make room for us in your hearts. We have wronged no one; we have ruined no one, nor tried to take advantage of anyone. 
He can keep the sun from rising, : and the stars from shining at night. 
Then Joseph brought his father Jacob and presented him to the king. Jacob gave the king his blessing, 
Or are Barnabas and I the only ones who have to work for our living? 
and when he heard the news about his nephew Jacob, he ran to meet him, hugged him and kissed him, and brought him into the house. When Jacob told Laban everything that had happened, 
and these were his high officials: : The priest: Azariah son of Zadok 
The LORD is my protector; : he is my strong fortress. : My God is my protection, : and with him I am safe. : He protects me like a shield; : he defends me and keeps me safe. 
Let me cross the River Jordan, LORD, and see the fertile land on the other side, the beautiful hill country and the Lebanon Mountains.’ 
The cedar panels were decorated with carvings of gourds and flowers; the whole interior was covered with cedar, so that the stones of the walls could not be seen. 
You shall sow your fields, prune your vineyards, and gather your crops for six years. 
Paul greeted them and gave a complete report of everything that God had done among the Gentiles through his work. 
He has taught me about the nature of living creatures, the behaviour of wild animals, the force of the winds, the reasoning powers of human beings, the different kinds of plants, and the use of their roots as medicine. 
and Merari was the father of Mahli and Mushi. 
Then he moved on from place to place, going towards the southern part of Canaan. 
I am the one who spoke and called him; : I led him out and gave him success. 
so that others cannot know that you are fasting — only your Father, who is unseen, will know. And your Father, who sees what you do in private, will reward you. 
My child, if you listen to what I am saying and put it into practice, one of these days you will thank me for it. Be moderate in everything you do, and you will never be sick. 
Those of our people who have died will live again! : Their bodies will come back to life. : All those sleeping in their graves : will wake up and sing for joy. : As the sparkling dew refreshes the earth, : so the LORD will revive those who have long been dead. 
and fasten the two gold cords to the two rings. 
They insist on turning away from me. They will cry out because of the yoke that is on them, but no one will lift it from them. 
Then Jehoahaz prayed to the LORD, and the LORD, seeing how harshly the king of Syria was oppressing the Israelites, answered his prayer. 
“The people do as they please. It's all the same to them whether they kill a bull as a sacrifice or sacrifice a human being; whether they sacrifice a lamb or break a dog's neck; whether they present a grain offering or offer pigs' blood; whether they offer incense or pray to an idol. They take pleasure in disgusting ways of worship. 
After the festival ended, all the people of Israel went to every city in Judah and broke the stone pillars, cut down the symbols of the goddess Asherah, and destroyed the altars and the pagan places of worship. They did the same thing throughout the rest of Judah, and the territories of Benjamin, Ephraim, and Manasseh; then they all returned home. 
The descendants of Cush were the people of Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah, and Sabteca. The descendants of Raamah were the people of Sheba and Dedan. 
This is the LORD's message to Joel son of Pethuel. 
“When someone invites you to a wedding feast, do not sit down in the best place. It could happen that someone more important than you has been invited,  
Cancel all the debts they owe you — money or corn or wine or olive oil. And give them back their fields, vineyards, olive groves, and houses at once!” 
If the offering is bread cooked on a griddle, it is to be made of flour mixed with olive oil but without yeast. 
To give to those who mourn in Zion : Joy and gladness instead of grief, : A song of praise instead of sorrow. : They will be like trees : That the LORD himself has planted. : They will all do what is right, : And God will be praised for what he has done. 
The land that you are about to occupy is not like the land of Egypt, where you lived before. There, when you sowed seed, you had to work hard to irrigate the fields; 
whose people were wicked and sinned against the LORD. 
If a person has a clear conscience and never gives up hope, he is certainly to be congratulated! 
but since the water still covered all the land, the dove did not find a place to alight. It flew back to the boat, and Noah reached out and took it in. 
The doorways and the windows had rectangular frames, and the three rows of windows in each wall faced the opposite rows. 
Many of the Samaritans in that town believed in Jesus because the woman had said, “He told me everything I have ever done.” 
But their words were all lies; : nothing they said was sincere. 
“What commandments?” he asked. : Jesus answered, “Do not commit murder; do not commit adultery; do not steal; do not accuse anyone falsely;  
Now we are in your power; do with us what you think is right.” 
Let us, then, hold firmly to the faith we profess. For we have a great High Priest who has gone into the very presence of God — Jesus, the Son of God. 
“When you harvest your fields, do not cut the corn at the edges of the fields, and do not go back to cut the ears of corn that were left. 
The Pharisees then said to one another, “You see, we are not succeeding at all! Look, the whole world is following him!” 
“Go and tell my servant David that I say to him, ‘You are not the one to build a temple for me to live in. 
the LORD appeared to him at night. He said to him, “I have heard your prayer, and I accept this Temple as the place where sacrifices are to be offered to me. 
another third will guard the royal palace, and the rest will be stationed at the Foundation Gate. All the people will assemble in the temple courtyard. 
I am abandoned among the dead; : I am like the slain lying in their graves, : those you have forgotten completely, : who are beyond your help. 
You claim God punishes a child for the sins of his father. : No! Let God punish the sinners themselves; : let him show that he does it because of their sins. 
Asher: 40,000 men ready for battle; 
They were heads of families in the clan and were all famous soldiers. Their descendants included 17,200 men eligible for military service. 
Let me live in your sanctuary all my life; : let me find safety under your wings. 
It took Solomon twenty years to build the Temple and his palace. 
Place the curtain under the row of hooks in the roof of the Tent, and behind the curtain put the Covenant Box containing the two stone tablets. The curtain will separate the Holy Place from the Most Holy Place. 
But nothing that is impure will enter the city, nor anyone who does shameful things or tells lies. Only those whose names are written in the Lamb's book of the living will enter the city.
But if her father forbids her to fulfil the vow when he hears about it, she is not required to keep it. The LORD will forgive her, because her father refused to let her keep it. 
“When a strong man, with all his weapons ready, guards his own house, all his belongings are safe.  
He asked some men at Enaim, “Where is the prostitute who was here by the road?” : “There has never been a prostitute here,” they answered. 
I answer, “Morning is coming, but night will come again. If you want to ask again, come back and ask.” 
After Martha said this, she went back and called her sister Mary privately. “The Teacher is here,” she told her, “and is asking for you.” 
Gad and his sons: Zephon, Haggi, Shuni, Ezbon, Eri, Arod, and Areli. 
The LORD says, : “Israel, remember this; : remember that you are my servant. : I created you to be my servant, : and I will never forget you. 
It is your will that the things you have made by your wisdom should be put to use. And so people can cross the sea in a boat and come safely to land, because they trust their lives to that small piece of wood. 
the table and all its equipment, and the bread offered to God; 
Jehoshaphat made peace with the king of Israel. 
The righteous will flourish like palm trees; : they will grow like the cedars of Lebanon. 
Micah answered, “What do you mean, ‘What's the matter?’ You take my priest and the gods that I made, and walk off! What have I got left?” 
Can anyone count the angels who serve him? : Is there any place where God's light does not shine? 
There were royal regulations stating how the clans should take turns in leading the temple music each day. 
I am putting my bow in the clouds. It will be the sign of my covenant with the world. 
“But later on I will make Ammon prosperous again. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
The sound of their voices made the foundation of the Temple shake, and the Temple itself was filled with smoke. 
All they asked was that we should remember the needy in their group, which is the very thing I have been eager to do. 
Ziklag, Madmannah, Sansannah, 
People who eat too much get stomach-ache and cannot sleep. If you don't overeat, you can get a good night's sleep and wake up early the next morning feeling fine. 
“No,” he answered. “Not even soldiers you had captured in combat would you put to death. Give them something to eat and drink, and let them return to their king.” 
So now, I, the LORD, say to you, King Jehoiakim, that no descendant of yours will ever rule over David's kingdom. Your corpse will be thrown out where it will be exposed to the sun during the day and to the frost at night. 
Peter answered, “Lord, I am ready to go to prison with you and to die with you!” 
Our fathers have been killed by the enemy, : and now our mothers are widows. 
The Pharisees said to him, “Now you are testifying on your own behalf; what you say proves nothing.” 
The king had them all made in the foundry between Sukkoth and Zeredah in the Jordan Valley. 
(most of the people of Benjamin had remained loyal to Saul); 
On the fourteenth day of Adar the Jews of Susa got together again and killed 300 more people in the city. But again, they did no looting. 
Then I will be the first to praise you : and admit that you won the victory yourself. 
“Why are you so frightened?” Jesus answered. “How little faith you have!” Then he got up and ordered the winds and the waves to stop, and there was a great calm. 
My people, were you ashamed because you did these disgusting things? No, you were not ashamed at all; you don't even know how to blush! And so you will fall as others have fallen; when I punish you, that will be the end of you. I, the LORD, have spoken. 
Don't be arrogant; you may suffer a fall and be disgraced. The Lord will reveal your secrets and humble you in front of everyone in the synagogue, because you did not come there with reverence for the Lord, but with a heart full of hypocrisy.
He answered, “Whoever has two shirts must give one to the man who has none, and whoever has food must share it.” 
those whom the Lord honoured with great glory, : in whom his greatness has been seen : from the beginning of time. 
Mordecai then left and did everything that Esther had told him to do.
and if afterwards a white swelling or a reddish-white spot appears where the boil was, he shall go to the priest. 
What hope do wicked people have? Only the hope of straw blown about in the wind, the hope of ocean foam that disappears in the storm, the hope of smoke in the breeze. Their hope lasts no longer than our memory of a guest who stays one day and leaves the next. 
You can't straighten out what is crooked; you can't count things that aren't there. 
He commanded the people of Judah to do the will of the LORD, the God of their ancestors, and to obey his teachings and commands. 
The LORD answered, “If I find fifty innocent people in Sodom, I will spare the whole city for their sake.” 
Then ten of Joab's soldiers closed in on Absalom and finished killing him. 
The Lord said to him, ‘Take your sandals off, for the place where you are standing is holy ground. 
as someone has said, : ‘In him we live and move and exist.’ : It is as some of your poets have said, : ‘We too are his children.’ 
The king answered, “Go and bury your father, as you promised you would.” 
While Your Majesty was watching, an angel came down from heaven and said, ‘Cut the tree down and destroy it, but leave the stump in the ground. Wrap a band of iron and bronze round it, and leave it there in the field with the grass. Let the dew fall on this man, and let him live there with the animals for seven years.’ 
From there we went inland to Philippi, a city of the first district of Macedonia; it is also a Roman colony. We spent several days there. 
So the emperor commanded: “Send back one of the priests we brought as prisoners; make him go back and live there, in order to teach the people the law of the god of that land.” 
“Who is this coming from the city of Bozrah in Edom? Who is this so splendidly dressed in red, marching along in power and strength?” : “It is the LORD, powerful to save, coming to announce his victory.” 
I will now condemn you just as I condemned your ancestors in the Sinai Desert,” says the Sovereign LORD. 
At the lower level the outer wall of the building was solid for 25 metres, half its length; and there were rooms in the remaining 25 metres. At the top level there were rooms in the entire length of the building. 
Sometimes the cloud remained over the Tent for only a few days; in any case, they remained in camp or moved, according to the command of the LORD. 
It is like the precious anointing oil : running down from Aaron's head and beard, : down to the collar of his robes. 
The LORD says, “The people of Ammon have sinned again and again, and for this I will certainly punish them. In their wars for more territory they even ripped open pregnant women in Gilead. 
She bore him Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. 
Zerah, and Shaul. 
They were under the command of Ahiezer and Joash, sons of Shemaah, from Gibeah. : These were the soldiers: : Jeziel and Pelet, sons of Azmaveth : Beracah and Jehu from Anathoth : Ishmaiah from Gibeon, a famous soldier and one of the leaders of “The Thirty” : Jeremiah, Jahaziel, Johannan, and Jozabad, from Gederah : Eluzai, Jerimoth, Bealiah, Shemariah, and Shephatiah, from Hariph : Elkanah, Isshiah, Azarel, Joezer, and Jashobeam, of the clan of Korah : Joelah and Zebadiah, sons of Jeroham, from Gedor 
They are very wicked; : cut them down like corn : at harvest time; : crush them as grapes are crushed : in a full winepress : until the wine runs over.” 
and two chains of pure gold twisted like cords, and attach them to the settings. 
A terrible and shocking thing has happened in the land
Only your wives, children, and livestock — I know you have a lot of livestock — will remain behind in the towns that I have assigned to you. 
Give me strength, as you promised, and I shall live; : don't let me be disappointed in my hope! 
I made you known to them, and I will continue to do so, in order that the love you have for me may be in them, and so that I also may be in them.”
About this time King Hezekiah fell ill and almost died. He prayed, and the LORD gave him a sign that he would recover. 
Laugh on, people of Edom and Uz; be glad while you can. : Your disaster is coming too; you too will stagger naked in shame. 
But when the Holy Spirit comes upon you, you will be filled with power, and you will be witnesses for me in Jerusalem, in all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.”  
Tell the king that the LORD says, ‘You will not recover from your injuries; you will die!’ ” : Elijah did as the LORD commanded, 
I will let it be overgrown with weeds. I will not prune the vines or hoe the ground; instead I will let briars and thorns cover it. I will even forbid the clouds to let rain fall on it.” 
They got as far as the steps with him, and then the soldiers had to carry him because the mob was so wild. 
The LORD says about Babylon: “The city that the whole world praised has been captured! What a horrifying sight Babylon has become to the nations! 
“Don't you know that the LORD, the God of Israel, made an unbreakable covenant with David, giving him and his descendants kingship over Israel for ever? 
Simon Peter answered him, “Lord, to whom would we go? You have the words that give eternal life. 
When the time came to gather the grapes, he sent his slaves to the tenants to receive his share of the harvest.  
They have not taken charge of the sacred rituals in my Temple, but instead have put foreigners in charge. 
May God's grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ with undying love.
First was Jashobeam of the clan of Hachmon, the leader of “The Three”. He fought with his spear against 300 men and killed them all in one battle. 
“Do not worship any other god, because I, the LORD, tolerate no rivals. 
Let me ask for two things; agree to them, : and I will not try to hide from you; 
In the 27th year of the reign of King Asa of Judah, Zimri ruled in Tirzah over Israel for seven days. The Israelite troops were besieging the city of Gibbethon in Philistia, 
Then Tobit prayed: : “Praise the eternal God, : praise the one who rules. 
“Our father died in the wilderness without leaving any sons. He was not among the followers of Korah, who rebelled against the LORD; he died because of his own sin. 
“Now here is the king you chose; you asked for him, and now the LORD has given him to you. 
When he does this, they are to mock the king of Babylonia and say: : “The cruel king has fallen! He will never oppress anyone again! 
When I arrived in Troas to preach the Good News about Christ, I found that the Lord had opened the way for the work there. 
So wash yourself, put on some perfume, and get dressed in your best clothes. Then go where he is threshing, but don't let him know you are there until he has finished eating and drinking. 
“The elder brother was so angry that he would not go into the house; so his father came out and begged him to come in.  
He gave them their tongues, their eyes, : their ears, their minds, and their consciences. 
and she bore him a son. When she saw what a fine baby he was, she hid him for three months. 
but there was still a sound coming from above the dome over their heads. 
Better to live on the roof than share the house with a nagging wife. 
My years are passing now, : and I walk the road of no return.
The tribe of Naphtali: the clans of Jahzeel, Guni, 
“All the skilled workers among you are to come and make everything that the LORD commanded
Wise leaders of the people will share their wisdom with many others. But for a while some of them will be killed in battle or be burnt to death, and some will be robbed and made prisoners. 
When you meet together as a group, it is not the Lord's Supper that you eat. 
So then, don't think of anyone's life as happy until it is over, because all the evidence is not in until the person is dead. 
The day of the LORD is near; : the day when the Almighty brings destruction. : What terror that day will bring! 
Yes, it is planted, but will it live and grow? Won't it wither when the east wind strikes it? Won't it wither there where it is growing?” 
And so they died, shaking with fear, afraid even to open their eyes, yet unable to keep them shut. 
There are different kinds of spiritual gifts, but the same Spirit gives them. 
This is the fate of the wicked, : the fate that God assigns to them.
10a: They are disappointed because so little progress is being made. But they will see Zerubbabel continuing to build the Temple, and they will be glad.”
Babylonia is the most beautiful kingdom of all; it is the pride of its people. But I, the LORD, will overthrow Babylon as I did Sodom and Gomorrah! 
Hammer the points of your ploughs into swords : and your pruning knives into spears. : Even the weak must fight. 
Josiah also tore down the place of worship in Bethel which had been built by King Jeroboam son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin. Josiah pulled down the altar, broke its stones into pieces, and pounded them to dust; he also burnt the image of Asherah. 
And if their bodies fall into a clay pot, everything that is in it shall be unclean, and you must break the pot. 
How I wish my people would listen to me; : how I wish they would obey me! 
When you sit down at a fancy banquet, don't let your mouth hang open, and don't say, “Look at all that food!” 
But God saves the poor from death; : he saves the needy from oppression. 
I will renew the covenant that I made with their ancestors when I showed all the nations my power by bringing my people out of Egypt, in order that I, the LORD, might be their God.” 
It is for your sake that I have been insulted : and that I am covered with shame. 
But if he later annuls the vow, he must suffer the consequences for the failure to fulfil the vow. 
With his many thousands of mighty chariots : the Lord comes from Sinai into the holy place. 
Jesus said, “Forgive them, Father! They don't know what they are doing.” : They divided his clothes among themselves by throwing dice. 
The enemy soldiers carry red shields : and wear uniforms of red. : They are preparing to attack! : Their chariots flash like fire! : Their horses prance! 
Ahimelech answered, “I have the sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom you killed in the Valley of Elah; it is behind the ephod, wrapped in a cloth. If you want it, take it — it's the only weapon here.” : “Give it to me,” David said. “There is not a better sword anywhere!” 
I used my wisdom to test all of this. I was determined to be wise, but it was beyond me. 
then may my arms be broken; : may they be torn from my shoulders. 
So on the first day of the first month of the second year after they left Egypt, the Tent of the LORD's presence was set up. 
For seven days we mourn the dead, but a foolish or ungodly person causes a lifetime of grief. 
“I am the LORD, the God of the whole human race. Nothing is too difficult for me. 
When the Syrians of Damascus sent an army to help King Hadadezer, David attacked it and killed 22,000 men. 
Powerful kings have reigned there and have ruled over the entire province of West Euphrates, collecting taxes and revenue. 
Why should the nations ask us, : “Where is your God?” : Let us see you punish the nations : for shedding the blood of your servants. 
See what happens to those who trust in themselves, : the fate of those who are satisfied with their wealth — 
The Israelites moved on and camped at Oboth. 
I will go to the people in power, : and talk with them. : Surely they know what their God requires, : what the LORD wants them to do.” : But all of them have rejected the LORD's authority : and refuse to obey him. 
who saw a man leaving and said to him, “Show us how to get into the city, and we won't hurt you.” 
So I am dedicating him to the LORD. As long as he lives, he will belong to the LORD.” : Then they worshipped the LORD there.
All persons and animals must wear sackcloth. Everyone must pray earnestly to God and must give up his wicked behaviour and his evil actions. 
He will let you laugh and shout again, 
and the king asked him, “How old are you?” 
Elijah, your miracles were marvellous! No one else can boast of such deeds! 
Jesus knew what they were saying, so he asked them, “Why are you discussing among yourselves about not having any bread? How little faith you have!  
He looked down at Sodom and Gomorrah and the whole valley and saw smoke rising from the land, like smoke from a huge furnace. 
Some of the things we hear you say sound strange to us, and we would like to know what they mean.” 
They asked each other, “Who did this?” They investigated and found out that Gideon son of Joash had done it. 
Later she gave birth to another son, Abel. Abel became a shepherd, but Cain was a farmer. 
At mealtime Boaz said to Ruth, “Come and have a piece of bread, and dip it in the sauce.” So she sat with the workers, and Boaz passed some roasted grain to her. She ate until she was satisfied, and she still had some food left over. 
And the beast that was once alive, but lives no longer, is itself an eighth king who is one of the seven and is going off to be destroyed. 
Joshua did to them what the LORD had commanded: he crippled their horses and burnt their chariots. 
Then Jesus said to him, “Listen! Don't tell anyone, but go straight to the priest and let him examine you; then in order to prove to everyone that you are cured, offer the sacrifice that Moses ordered.” 
When the dazzling light of my presence passes by, I will put you in an opening in the rock and cover you with my hand until I have passed by. 
in the order of their birth, with six on one stone and six on the other. 
and so I answered, “Here I am; : your instructions for me are in the book of the Law. 
They will have abundant rainfall : And plant their seed in well-watered fields. : Their king shall be greater than Agag, : And his rule shall be extended far and wide. 
When the officers have finished speaking to the army, leaders are to be chosen for each unit. 
The LORD Almighty says, : “I will punish you, Nineveh! : I will strip you naked : and let the nations see you, : see you in all your shame. 
“He sent fire from above, a fire that burnt inside me. : He set a trap for me and brought me to the ground. : Then he abandoned me and left me in constant pain. 
Everything else that Uzziah did is recorded in The History of the Kings of Judah. 
Ebron, Rehob, Hammon, and Kanah, as far as Sidon. 
They said to the Benjaminites, “Go and hide in the vineyards 
God will surely break the heads of his enemies, : of those who persist in their sinful ways. 
and she told them to go back to the king and give him 
Riches will do you no good on the day you face death, but honesty can save your life. 
He made seven lamps for the lampstand, and he made its tongs and trays of pure gold. 
I am afraid that your minds will be corrupted and that you will abandon your full and pure devotion to Christ — in the same way that Eve was deceived by the snake's clever lies. 
So listen to me, you shepherds. 
But the wicked will look round in despair : and find that there is no way to escape. : Their one hope is that death will come.
At every Passover Festival Pilate was in the habit of setting free any one prisoner the people asked for. 
“What will you gain from my death? : What profit from my going to the grave? : Are dead people able to praise you? : Can they proclaim your unfailing goodness? 
For the tribe of Reuben there was the city of Bezer, on the desert plateau; for the tribe of Gad there was Ramoth, in the territory of Gilead; and for the tribe of Manasseh there was Golan, in the territory of Bashan. 
We, however, are citizens of heaven, and we eagerly wait for our Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ, to come from heaven. 
He placed the rest of his troops under the command of his brother Abishai, who put them in position facing the Ammonites. 
King Hiram of Tyre had provided him with all the cedar and pine and with all the gold he wanted for this work. After it was finished, King Solomon gave Hiram twenty towns in the region of Galilee. 
Then I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and they were given seven trumpets. 
At that, Saul threw his spear at Jonathan to kill him, and Jonathan realized that his father was really determined to kill David. 
I have to boast, even though it doesn't do any good. But I will now talk about visions and revelations given me by the Lord. 
This hope does not disappoint us, for God has poured out his love into our hearts by means of the Holy Spirit, who is God's gift to us. 
Jesus answered, “Are you really ready to die for me? I am telling you the truth: before the cock crows you will say three times that you do not know me.
We are from Parthia, Media, and Elam; from Mesopotamia, Judea, and Cappadocia; from Pontus and Asia, 
That is why the holidays are called Purim. Because of Mordecai's letter and because of all that had happened to them, 
It was faith that made Isaac promise blessings for the future to Jacob and Esau. 
You have won this great victory for Israel by yourself. God, the Almighty, is pleased with what you have done. May he bless you as long as you live.” : All the people responded, “Amen.” 
Then I can answer those who insult me : because I trust in your word. 
When the water was all gone, she left the child under a bush 
The people of Israel are to place their hands on the heads of the Levites, 
This is a message about Egypt. : The LORD is coming to Egypt, riding swiftly on a cloud. The Egyptian idols tremble before him, and the people of Egypt lose their courage. 
“They are only finding things to capture and divide, : a woman or two for every soldier, : rich cloth for Sisera, : embroidered pieces for the neck of the queen.” 
The people of Israel are going to see this with their own eyes, and they will say, “The LORD is mighty even outside the land of Israel!” 
Better to live out in the desert than with a nagging, complaining wife. 
May God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peace. 
So she lay there at his feet, but she got up before it was light enough for her to be seen, because Boaz did not want anyone to know that she had been there. 
The Lord be with your spirit. : God's grace be with you all.
Do not bow down to any idol or worship it, for I am the LORD your God and I tolerate no rivals. I bring punishment on those who hate me and on their descendants down to the third and fourth generation. 
When the disciples who were with Jesus saw what was going to happen, they asked, “Shall we use our swords, Lord?” 
For all of us, there is one way into life, and there is one way out. 
But they were not able to answer him about this. 
When the crowds heard this, they were amazed at his teaching. 
Make it and all its furnishings according to the plan that I will show you. 
So Naaman went down to the Jordan, dipped himself in it seven times, as Elisha had instructed, and he was completely cured. His flesh became firm and healthy, like that of a child. 
The people there were more open-minded than the people in Thessalonica. They listened to the message with great eagerness, and every day they studied the Scriptures to see if what Paul said was really true. 
You show your care for the land by sending rain; : you make it rich and fertile. : You fill the streams with water; : you provide the earth with crops. : This is how you do it
The cities that are now in ruins will then be as full of people as Jerusalem was once full of the sheep which were offered as sacrifices at a festival. Then they will know that I am the LORD.”
and said to Jeroboam, “Take ten pieces for yourself, because the LORD, the God of Israel, says to you, ‘I am going to take the kingdom away from Solomon, and I will give you ten tribes. 
He saw heaven opened and something coming down that looked like a large sheet being lowered by its four corners to the earth. 
Saul kept David with him from that day on and did not let him go back home. 
If you are weak in a crisis, you are weak indeed. 
Judge for yourselves whether it is proper for a woman to pray to God in public worship with nothing on her head. 
Your shame and disgrace are ended. : You will live in your own land, : And your wealth will be doubled; : Your joy will last for ever. 
So Herod called the visitors from the east to a secret meeting and found out from them the exact time the star had appeared. 
For, as the scripture says: : “Just a little while longer, : and he who is coming will come; : he will not delay. 
Then once again she will call me her husband — she will no longer call me her Baal.  
Jacob said, “Make a vow that you will.” Joseph made the vow, and Jacob gave thanks there on his bed.
The inside walls were covered with cedar panels from the floor to the ceiling, and the floor was made of pine. 
as the sin offering and the other as the burnt offering with the grain offering. In this way the priest shall perform the ritual of purification. 
“I sent a plague on you like the one I sent on Egypt. I killed your young men in battle and took your horses away. I filled your nostrils with the stink of dead bodies in your camps. Still you did not come back to me. 
But the most foolish of all people, showing less sense than babies, were the enemies who oppressed your people, O Lord. 
So Joshua sent them out, and they went to their hiding place and waited there, west of Ai, between Ai and Bethel. Joshua spent the night in camp. 
But you — you terrify me with dreams; : you send me visions and nightmares 
They came to him and said, “Teacher, we know that you tell the truth, without worrying about what people think. You pay no attention to anyone's status, but teach the truth about God's will for people. Tell us, is it against our Law to pay taxes to the Roman Emperor? Should we pay them or not?” 
He also said, “God has given me children in the land of my trouble”; so he named his second son Ephraim. 
and said to me, “Please do what we ask you! Pray to the LORD our God for us. Pray for all of us who have survived. Once there were many of us; but now only a few of us are left, as you can see. 
Never rebuke a person when you have both been drinking. Don't hurt his feelings while he is having a good time. It's not the time to criticize anyone, or to ask him to pay back a debt.
“I took the burdens off your backs; : I let you put down your loads of bricks. 
The LORD was angry with the people and made them wander in the wilderness for forty years until that whole generation that had displeased him was dead. 
But punishment will finally catch up with them, for two reasons: first, they were in error about God when they worshipped idols, and secondly, they had so little regard for holiness that they made false statements to deceive people. 
The LORD reached down from above and took hold of me; : he pulled me out of the deep waters. 
So Pilate passed the sentence on Jesus that they were asking for. 
In Joppa there was a woman named Tabitha, who was a believer. (Her name in Greek is Dorcas, meaning “a deer”.) She spent all her time doing good and helping the poor. 
So they ate the food of angels, : and God gave them all they wanted. 
and commanded the prophet Nathan to name the boy Jedidiah, because the LORD loved him. 
The sins of some people are plain to see, and their sins go ahead of them to judgement; but the sins of others are seen only later. 
Wherever they went, they brought disgrace on my holy name, because people would say, ‘These are the people of the LORD, but they had to leave his land.’ 
And the crowd joined in the attack against Paul and Silas. : Then the officials tore the clothes off Paul and Silas and ordered them to be whipped. 
they would weigh more than the sands of the sea, : so my wild words should not surprise you. 
When they arrived in Jerusalem, they were welcomed by the church, the apostles, and the elders, to whom they told all that God had done through them. 
This is the list of the ancestors of Jesus Christ, a descendant of David, who was a descendant of Abraham. 
What I mean is that both you and I will be helped at the same time, you by my faith and I by yours. 
The men said to her, “May God take our lives if we don't do as we say! If you do not tell anyone what we have been doing, we promise you that when the LORD gives us this land, we will treat you well.” 
the earth shook, and the sky poured down rain, : because of the coming of the God of Sinai, : the coming of the God of Israel. 
Even the relatives of a poor person have no use for him; no wonder he has no friends. No matter how hard he tries, he cannot win any. 
If you offer any animal that has any defect, the LORD will not accept it. 
All Scripture is inspired by God and is useful for teaching the truth, rebuking error, correcting faults, and giving instruction for right living, 
So it goes back and finds the house clean and tidy.  
Eliphaz became the ancestor of the following tribes: Teman, Omar, Zephi, Gatam, Kenaz, Timna, and Amalek. 
The area dedicated to the LORD is the best part of all the land, and none of it may be sold or exchanged or transferred to anyone else. It is holy and belongs to the LORD. 
My teaching will give you a long and prosperous life. 
But when all things have been placed under Christ's rule, then he himself, the Son, will place himself under God, who placed all things under him; and God will rule completely over all. 
Shimea, Haggiah, Asaiah. 
They took the book of the Law of the LORD and went through all the towns of Judah, teaching it to the people. 
This is the law of the Temple: all the area surrounding it on the top of the mountain is sacred and holy.” 
He showed no mercy on that nation which he doomed to destruction for its sins, 
Many people, however, saw them leave and knew at once who they were; so they went from all the towns and ran ahead by land and arrived at the place ahead of Jesus and his disciples. 
This, then, is the bread that came down from heaven; it is not like the bread that your ancestors ate. They later died, but those who eat this bread will live for ever.” 
Then the people of Israel sinned against the LORD and began to serve the Baals. 
On the day when the forts of your enemies are captured and their people are killed, streams of water will flow from every mountain and every hill. 
David left and went to the region of Engedi, where he stayed in hiding.
Nethanel son of Zuar was in command of the tribe of Issachar, 
in the second month of the fourth year that he was king. 
(The Israelites had to go to the Philistines to get their ploughs, hoes, axes, and sickles sharpened; 
I wish that the people who are upsetting you would go all the way; let them go on and castrate themselves! 
But Moses said, “No, LORD, don't send me. I have never been a good speaker, and I haven't become one since you began to speak to me. I am a poor speaker, slow and hesitant.” 
that I may stand before the people of Jerusalem : and tell them all the things for which I praise you. : I will rejoice because you saved me. 
The sun, moon, and stars will crumble to dust. The sky will disappear like a scroll being rolled up, and the stars will fall like leaves dropping from a vine or a fig tree. 
Jacob set out from Beersheba. His sons put him, their small children, and their wives in the wagons which the king of Egypt had sent. 
God offered him, so that by his blood he should become the means by which people's sins are forgiven through their faith in him. God did this in order to demonstrate that he is righteous. In the past he was patient and overlooked people's sins; but in the present time he deals with their sins, in order to demonstrate his righteousness. In this way God shows that he himself is righteous and that he puts right everyone who believes in Jesus. 
After that, he is to wash his clothes and pour water over himself, and then he may enter the camp; but he remains ritually unclean until evening. 
The evil spirit shook the man hard, gave a loud scream, and came out of him. 
No other prophet has ever done miracles and wonders like those that the LORD sent Moses to perform against the king of Egypt, his officials, and the entire country. 
Stop your loud boasting; : silence your proud words. : For the LORD is a God who knows, : and he judges all that people do. 
It is not growing old that makes people wise : or helps them to know what is right. 
I still rebel and complain against God; : I can't hold back my groaning. 
Don't laugh at someone who has been humiliated. It is the Lord who humbles a person, but the Lord also raises him up again. 
but anything living in the water that does not have fins and scales may not be eaten; it must be considered unclean. 
On another occasion King Zedekiah had me brought to him at the third entrance to the Temple, and he said, “I am going to ask you a question, and I want you to tell me the whole truth.” 
Allam Melech, Amad, and Mishal. On the west it touched Carmel and Shihor Libnath. 
Ashpenaz, however, was afraid of the king, so he said to Daniel, “The king has decided what you are to eat and drink, and if you don't look as fit as the other young men, he may kill me.” 
They crossed the lake and came to land at Gennesaret, where they tied up the boat. 
The LORD says, “I am stirring up the Medes to attack Babylon. They care nothing for silver and are not tempted by gold. 
All the events of Asa's reign from beginning to end are recorded in The History of the Kings of Judah and Israel. 
Then the LORD told Joshua 
I was so happy when some fellow-Christians arrived and told me how faithful you are to the truth — just as you always live in the truth. 
Then you will go to the Hill of God in Gibeah, where there is a Philistine camp. At the entrance to the town you will meet a group of prophets coming down from the altar on the hill, playing harps, drums, flutes, and lyres. They will be dancing and shouting. 
have a nap and sleep if you want to. Fold your hands and rest awhile, 
One day Gideon and all his men got up early and camped beside the Spring of Harod. The Midianite camp was in the valley to the north of them by Moreh Hill. 
My closest friends look at me with disgust; : those I loved most have turned against me. 
“These people want the kind of prophet who goes about full of lies and deceit and says, ‘I prophesy that wine and liquor will flow for you.’ 
It would also mean that the believers in Christ who have died are lost. 
The people of Jacob and of Joseph will be like fire; : they will destroy the people of Esau : as fire burns stubble. : No descendant of Esau will survive. : I, the LORD, have spoken. 
You were busy buying and selling, and this led you to violence and sin. So I forced you to leave my holy mountain, and the angel who guarded you drove you away from the sparkling gems. 
The LORD built his city on the sacred hill; 
Are any of you ill? You should send for the church elders, who will pray for them and rub olive oil on them in the name of the Lord. 
“But, look! The one who betrays me is here at the table with me!  
As soon as Ananias heard this, he fell down dead; and all who heard about it were terrified. 
The LORD will protect you from all danger; : he will keep you safe. 
Obed, and Jesse. 
But Joshua spared the lives of the prostitute Rahab and all her relatives, because she had hidden the two spies that he had sent to Jericho. (Her descendants have lived in Israel to this day.) 
The child's father and mother were amazed at the things Simeon said about him. 
So now, LORD God of Israel, let everything come true that you promised to your servant David. 
Each Sabbath and each New Moon Festival all the people are also to bow down and worship the LORD in front of the gate. 
He will sharpen his stern anger into a sword, and the forces of nature will join him in battle against those who are foolish enough to oppose him. 
And what is the meaning of the two olive branches beside the two gold pipes from which the olive oil pours?” 
Everyone who saw it said, “We have never heard of such a thing! Nothing like this has ever happened since the Israelites left Egypt! We have to do something about this! What will it be?”
When Jesus was alone, some of those who had heard him came to him with the twelve disciples and asked him to explain the parables. 
He made the Egyptians hate his people : and treat his servants with deceit. 
Solomon used the wood to build railings in the Temple and the palace, and also to make harps and lyres for the musicians. It was the finest juniper wood ever imported into Israel; none like it has ever been seen again.) 
But if that servant says to himself that his master is taking a long time to come back and if he begins to beat the other servants, both the men and the women, and eats and drinks and gets drunk,  
both are to go to the one place of worship and be judged by the priests and judges who are then in office. 
The Lord isn't going to give me a thought. Nobody cares what I do. 
together with all Abraham's slaves.
Rehoboam died and was buried in the royal tombs in David's City, and his son Abijah succeeded him as king.
Then he asked another one, ‘And you — how much do you owe?’ ‘A thousand sacks of wheat,’ he answered. ‘Here is your account,’ the manager told him; ‘write 800.’ 
At once Jesus knew that power had gone out of him, so he turned round in the crowd and asked, “Who touched my clothes?” 
So Solomon succeeded his father David on the throne which the LORD had established. He was a successful king, and the whole nation of Israel obeyed him. 
Great windstorms will blow them away like straw. Lawlessness will be the ruin of the whole world. Evil actions will cause governments to fall.
and he might be wise, or he might be foolish — who knows? Yet he will own everything I have worked for, everything my wisdom has earned for me in this world. It is all useless. 
The first angel blew his trumpet. Hail and fire, mixed with blood, came pouring down on the earth. A third of the earth was burnt up, a third of the trees, and every blade of green grass. 
Have I asked you to give me a gift : or to bribe someone on my behalf 
The apostles said to the Lord, “Make our faith greater.” 
like ships tossing in a furious storm. 
Then the oppressors will regret what they did, and groaning in anguish they will say to one another
They gather in hiding places : and watch everything I do, : hoping to kill me. 
“You call me Teacher and Lord, and it is right that you do so, because that is what I am.  
Moses said to the Israelites, “The LORD has chosen Bezalel, the son of Uri and grandson of Hur, from the tribe of Judah. 
Publius' father was in bed, sick with fever and dysentery. Paul went into his room, prayed, placed his hands on him, and healed him. 
Before he finished speaking, Jonathan, the son of the priest Abiathar, arrived. “Come in,” Adonijah said. “You're a good man — you must be bringing good news.” 
I will richly provide Zion with all she needs; : I will satisfy her poor with food. 
He will be handed over to the Gentiles, who will mock him, insult him, and spit on him.  
and in the fourth row, a beryl, a carnelian, and a jasper. These were mounted in gold settings. 
Gabriel came and stood beside me, and I was so terrified that I fell to the ground. : He said to me, “Mortal man, understand the meaning. The vision has to do with the end of the world.” 
All I have ever done is to tell you the truth I heard from God, yet you are trying to kill me. Abraham did nothing like this!  
You will crumble like rocks burnt to make lime, like thorns burnt to ashes. 
But for you who obey me, my saving power will rise on you like the sun and bring healing like the sun's rays. You will be as free and happy as calves let out of a stall. 
Our human fathers punished us for a short time, as it seemed right to them; but God does it for our own good, so that we may share his holiness. 
And so this weak person, your brother for whom Christ died, will perish because of your “knowledge”! 
and put Adoniram in charge of them. He divided them into three groups of 10,000 men, and each group spent one month in Lebanon and two months back home. 
Ahithophel answered, “Go and have intercourse with your father's concubines whom he left behind to take care of the palace. Then everyone in Israel will know that your father regards you as his enemy, and your followers will be greatly encouraged.” 
The LORD spoke to me. 
that the Messiah must suffer and be the first one to rise from death, to announce the light of salvation to the Jews and to the Gentiles.” 
So I thought, ‘The Philistines are going to attack me here in Gilgal, and I have not tried to win the LORD's favour.’ So I felt I had to offer a sacrifice.” 
When he saw her, he tore his clothes in sorrow and said, “Oh, my daughter! You are breaking my heart! Why must it be you that causes me pain? I have made a solemn promise to the LORD, and I cannot take it back!” 
And I make a covenant with you: I have given you my power and my teachings to be yours for ever, and from now on you are to obey me and teach your children and your descendants to obey me for all time to come.”Arise, Jerusalem, and shine like the sun; : The glory of the LORD is shining on you! 
“Take it out,” he ordered, and the man bent down and picked it up. 
They said to Jephthah, “We are turning to you now because we want you to go with us and fight the Ammonites and lead all the people of Gilead.” 
What you see in a dream is no more real than the reflection of your face in a mirror. 
A good person's words are a fountain of life, but a wicked person's words hide a violent nature. 
The power and greatness of all the kingdoms on earth will be given to the people of the Supreme God. Their royal power will never end and all rulers on earth will serve and obey them.” 
When Herod realized that the visitors from the east had tricked him, he was furious. He gave orders to kill all the boys in Bethlehem and its neighbourhood who were two years old and younger — this was done in accordance with what he had learned from the visitors about the time when the star had appeared. 
Then King Darius wrote to the people of all nations, races, and languages on earth: : “Greetings! 
You inspect them every morning : and test them every minute. 
But all of us are ready to go into battle under the LORD's command. We will cross the Jordan and fight, just as you have said.” 
You have never wanted my advice or paid any attention when I corrected you. 
“Don't be afraid,” Elisha answered. “We have more on our side than they have on theirs.” 
yet you hate what is good and you love what is evil. You skin my people alive and tear the flesh off their bones. 
Why have they alone, of all the people in the west, refused to come out and surrender to me?” 
Herod and his soldiers mocked Jesus and treated him with contempt; then they put a fine robe on him and sent him back to Pilate. 
Acknowledge that the LORD is God. : He made us, and we belong to him; : we are his people, we are his flock. 
Then Haggai asked, “Suppose someone is defiled because he has touched a dead body. If he then touches any of these foods, will that make them defiled too?” : The priests answered, “Yes.” 
Simeon: 7,100 well-trained men; 
Full of fear, the women bowed down to the ground, as the men said to them, “Why are you looking among the dead for one who is alive? 
I will throw your enemies into a panic; I will drive out the Hivites, the Canaanites, and the Hittites as you advance. 
a hateful woman who gets married, : and a servant woman who takes the place of her mistress. 
The total number of descendants of the temple workmen and of Solomon's servants who returned from exile was 392. 
Then Zebul said to him, “Where is all your big talk now? You were the one who asked why we should serve this man Abimelech. These are the men you were treating so scornfully. Go on out now and fight them.” 
May God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give to all Christian brothers and sisters peace and love with faith. 
He will not let them be destroyed; : he saves them from death itself. 
Jeroboam also instituted a religious festival on the fifteenth day of the eighth month, like the festival in Judah. On the altar in Bethel he offered sacrifices to the gold bull calves he had made, and he placed there in Bethel the priests serving at the places of worship he had built. 
What we are teaching you now is the Lord's teaching: we who are alive on the day the Lord comes will not go ahead of those who have died. 
God has always been your defence; : his eternal arms are your support. : He drove out your enemies as you advanced, : and told you to destroy them all. 
Keep him at work, and don't let him be idle; idleness can only teach him how to make trouble. 
How much longer will the wicked be glad? : How much longer, LORD? 
The evening before he came, I had felt the powerful presence of the LORD. When the man arrived the next morning, the LORD gave me back the power of speech. 
Your ears will be deaf to the noise of the street. You will barely be able to hear the mill as it grinds or music as it plays, but even the song of a bird will wake you from sleep. 
The leaders and the people answered, “Don't pay any attention to him; don't give in.” 
Large crowds followed him, and he healed them there. 
Then, when I speak to you again and give you back the power of speech, you will tell them what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying. Some of them will listen, but some will ignore you, for they are a nation of rebels.”
My lover is like a gazelle, : like a young stag. : There he stands beside the wall. : He looks in through the window : and glances through the lattice. 
Give it from the best that you receive. 
the priest shall take the offering of flour out of the woman's hands, hold it out in dedication to the LORD, and present it on the altar. 
So I have come back to Jerusalem to show mercy to the city. My Temple will be restored, and the city will be rebuilt.” 
Then Jesus spoke to them in parables: “Once there was a man who planted a vineyard, put a fence round it, dug a hole for the winepress, and built a watchtower. Then he let out the vineyard to tenants and left home on a journey.  
The Israelites lived in Egypt in the region of Goshen, where they became rich and had many children. 
The earth itself will stagger like a drunken man and sway like a hut in a storm. The world is weighed down by its sins; it will collapse and never rise again. 
Don't let my enemies, those liars, : gloat over my defeat. : Don't let those who hate me for no reason : smirk with delight over my sorrow. 
“No, my friends, we should set an example for our own people. Not only their lives, but the fate of the Temple and the altar depend on us. 
As you advance, he will surely drive out the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Hivites, the Perizzites, the Girgashites, the Amorites, and the Jebusites. You will know that the living God is among you 
When the people of Israel left Egypt, all the males were already circumcised. However, during the forty years the people spent crossing the desert, none of the baby boys had been circumcised. Also, by the end of that time all the men who were of fighting age when they left Egypt had died because they had disobeyed the LORD. Just as he had sworn, they were not allowed to see the rich and fertile land that he had promised their ancestors. 
They lose their courage : and come trembling from their fortresses. 
Make fifty gold hooks with which to join the two sets into one piece. 
For seven days no yeast must be found in your houses, for if anyone, native-born or foreign, eats bread made with yeast, he shall no longer be considered one of my people.” 
I now appoint you governor over all Egypt.” 
Then Jesus went home. Again such a large crowd gathered that Jesus and his disciples had no time to eat. 
“The Law of Moses and the writings of the prophets were in effect up to the time of John the Baptist; since then the Good News about the Kingdom of God is being told, and everyone forces their way in.  
Well, then, why didn't you put my money in the bank? Then I would have received it back with interest when I returned.’ 
and he ruled for three years in Jerusalem. His mother was Micaiah daughter of Uriel, from the city of Gibeah. : War broke out between Abijah and Jeroboam. 
for forty years. He ruled in Hebron for seven years and in Jerusalem for 33. 
Do not deceive yourselves by just listening to his word; instead, put it into practice. 
“Listen, my people, and I will speak; : I will testify against you, Israel. : I am God, your God. 
Shimei's descendants included Jakim, Zichri, Zabdi, 
Fountains water the garden, : streams of flowing water, : brooks gushing down from the Lebanon Mountains. 
Get rid of all bitterness, passion, and anger. No more shouting or insults, no more hateful feelings of any sort. 
It then went down to the foot of the mountain that overlooks the Valley of Hinnom, at the north end of the Valley of Rephaim. It then went south through the Valley of Hinnom, south of the Jebusite ridge, towards Enrogel. 
There were flashes of lightning, rumblings and peals of thunder, and a terrible earthquake. There has never been such an earthquake since the creation of the human race; this was the worst earthquake of all! 
All your fighting men are to cross the Jordan and under the command of the LORD they are to attack our enemies until the LORD defeats them 
At that time you were apart from Christ. You were foreigners and did not belong to God's chosen people. You had no part in the covenants, which were based on God's promises to his people, and you lived in this world without hope and without God. 
The LORD is great and is to be highly praised : in the city of our God, on his sacred hill. 
For I have not held back from announcing to you the whole purpose of God. 
All the brothers and sisters who are here join me in sending greetings to the churches of Galatia
Because your love is constant, hear me, O LORD; : show your mercy, and preserve my life! 
And Jesus concluded, “Listen, then, if you have ears!” 
These clans numbered 52,700 men. 
“The teachers of the Law and the Pharisees are the authorized interpreters of Moses' Law.  
When I call a servant, he doesn't answer — : even when I beg him to help me. 
From there the border went west to Mareal, touching Dabbesheth and the stream east of Jokneam. 
After sending the people away, he went up a hill by himself to pray. When evening came, Jesus was there alone; 
Tell the whole nation that this is the message of the Sovereign LORD to the people of Jerusalem who are still living in their land: they will tremble when they eat and shake with fear when they drink. Their land will be stripped bare, because everyone who lives there is lawless. 
for a second time. Over the wine the king asked her again, “Now, Queen Esther, what do you want? Tell me and you shall have it. I'll even give you half the empire.” 
“I will make those of you who are in exile so terrified that the sound of a leaf blowing in the wind will make you run. You will run as if you were being pursued in battle, and you will fall when there is no enemy near you. 
But Pilate asked, “What crime has he committed?” : Then they started shouting at the top of their voices: “Crucify him!” 
If you do not keep the covenant which the LORD your God commanded you to keep and if you serve and worship other gods, then in his anger he will punish you, and soon none of you will be left in this good land that he has given you.”
And I know that his command brings eternal life. What I say, then, is what the Father has told me to say.”
That was why the crowd met him — because they heard that he had performed this miracle. 
They let their babies die of hunger and thirst; : children are begging for food that no one will give them. 
So then, learn what I am about to teach you, and you will profit from it.
I will come to you and save you. : I will destroy all the nations : where I have scattered you, : but I will not destroy you. : I will not let you go unpunished; : but when I punish you, I will be fair. : I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
Until the LORD looks down from heaven and sees us. 
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. 
That night the LORD appeared to him and said, “I am the God of your father Abraham. Do not be afraid; I am with you. I will bless you and give you many descendants because of my promise to my servant Abraham.” 
Then King Hezekiah and all the people knelt down and worshipped God. 
He saves them from death; : he keeps them alive in times of famine. 
I sent for nine of the leaders: Eliezer, Ariel, Shemaiah, Elnathan, Jarib, Elnathan, Nathan, Zechariah, and Meshullam, and for two teachers, Joiarib and Elnathan. 
I took that sinful thing that you had made — that metal bull calf — and threw it into the fire. Then I broke it in pieces, ground it to dust, and threw the dust into the stream that flowed down the mountain. 
The LORD spoke to me. 
Not far from that place were some fields that belonged to Publius, the chief official of the island. He welcomed us kindly and for three days we were his guests. 
Others suffer from your sins, : and the good you do helps them. 
They made fifteen crossbars of acacia wood, five for the frames on one side of the Tent, 
God is a righteous judge : and always condemns the wicked. 
a heavy hailstorm, with lightning flashing to and fro. It was the worst storm that Egypt had ever known in all its history. 
Remember Lot's wife!  
And then he died at a very great age.
I have chosen him in order that he may command his sons and his descendants to obey me and to do what is right and just. If they do, I will do everything for him that I have promised.” 
Elisha died and was buried. : Every year bands of Moabites used to invade the land of Israel. 
After Joshua's death the people of Israel asked the LORD, “Which of our tribes should be the first to go and attack the Canaanites?” 
He purifies people from their sins, and both he and those who are made pure all have the same Father. That is why Jesus is not ashamed to call them his family. 
The merchants, who became rich from doing business in that city, will stand a long way off, because they are afraid of sharing in her suffering. They will cry and mourn, 
He answered, “These are the four winds; they have just come from the presence of the Lord of all the earth.” 
Many of the exiles left the province of Babylon and returned to Jerusalem and Judah, each to his own city. Their families had been living in exile in Babylonia ever since King Nebuchadnezzar had taken them there as prisoners. 
Well, be just as careful with what you say. Weigh every word, and have a lock ready for your mouth. 
And while he was offering sacrifices, Absalom also sent to the town of Gilo for Ahithophel, who was one of King David's advisers. The plot against the king gained strength, and Absalom's followers grew in number. 
Joshua was loyal as long as Moses lived, both he and Caleb son of Jephunneh. They stood up to the whole community, made them stop their ungrateful complaining, and kept them from sinning. 
The people of Asher lived with the local Canaanites, since they did not drive them out. 
There are many different languages in the world, yet none of them is without meaning. 
Run away from Babylonia! Run for your lives! Do not be killed because of Babylonia's sin. I am now taking my revenge and punishing it as it deserves. 
He taught me to sing a new song, : a song of praise to our God. : Many who see this will take warning : and will put their trust in the LORD. 
The scripture says, “Whoever believes in him will not be disappointed.” 
Esau's sons were Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam, and Korah. 
When Saul's son Ishbosheth heard that Abner had been killed in Hebron, he was afraid, and all the people of Israel were alarmed. 
One of them has already left me. He must have been torn to pieces by wild animals, because I have not seen him since he left. 
but if it comes from God, you cannot possibly defeat them. You could find yourselves fighting against God!” : The Council followed Gamaliel's advice. 
Write down for the coming generation what the LORD has done, : so that people not yet born will praise him. 
He answered, “Because of what Naboth said to me. I offered to buy his vineyard, or, if he preferred, to give him another one for it, but he told me that I couldn't have it!” 
When Jacob was told that his son Joseph had come to see him, he gathered his strength and sat up in bed. 
I was told the number of the mounted troops: it was 200,0000. 
The Lord in his anger has covered Zion with darkness. : Its heavenly splendour he has turned into ruins. : On the day of his anger he abandoned even his Temple. 
Jesus spent those days teaching in the Temple, and when evening came, he would go out and spend the night on the Mount of Olives. 
Asa pleased the LORD, his God, by doing what was right and good. 
Then the prophet Zedekiah went up to Micaiah, slapped his face, and asked, “Since when did the LORD's spirit leave me and speak to you?” 
When peace returned, they sinned again, : and again you let their enemies conquer them. : Yet when they repented and asked you to save them, : in heaven you heard, and time after time : you rescued them in your great mercy. 
It covered the hills with its shade; : its branches overshadowed the giant cedars. 
Don't be stupid like a horse or a mule, : which must be controlled with a bit and bridle : to make it submit.” 
You will hear what they are saying, and then you will have the courage to attack.” So Gideon and his servant Purah went down to the edge of the enemy camp. 
He burnt down the Temple and the city, with all its palaces and its wealth, and broke down the city wall. 
When the people arrived in Jerusalem, they purified themselves and worshipped God. They presented their burnt offerings, freewill offerings, and gifts. 
So Joshua and all his men attacked them by surprise at Merom Brook. 
The king of Babylonia hears the news, : and his hands hang limp. : He is seized by anguish, : by pain like a woman in labour. 
the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.”
As we see it, proud people are the ones who are happy. Evil people not only prosper, but they test God's patience with their evil deeds and get away with it.’ ” 
See for yourselves! I have really not studied very hard, but I have found great contentment. 
And just as I took care to uproot, to pull down, to overthrow, to destroy, and to demolish them, so I will take care to plant them and to build them up. 
She and her daughters were proud because they had plenty to eat and lived in peace and quiet, but they did not take care of the poor and the underprivileged. 
Vultures came down on the bodies, but Abram drove them off. 
My enemies say cruel things about me. : They want me to die and be forgotten. 
There were no limits on the drinks; the king had given orders to the palace servants that everyone could have as much as he wanted. 
But the Lord laughs at wicked people, : because he knows they will soon be destroyed. 
Israel will be like a field where the corn has been cut and harvested, as desolate as a field in the valley of Rephaim when it has been picked bare. 
The LORD gave Moses 
Remember that you made me from clay; : are you going to crush me back to dust? 
When your people grew thirsty, they called to you, Lord, and you gave them water flowing out of solid rock. 
Some of the king's officials were afraid because of what the LORD had said, and they brought their slaves and animals indoors for shelter. 
“The LORD's people grew rich, but rebellious; : they were fat and stuffed with food. : They abandoned God their Creator : and rejected their mighty saviour. 
This is what the LORD said about Ammon: “Where are the men of Israel? Is there no one to defend their land? Why have they let the people who worship Molech take the territory of the tribe of Gad and settle there? 
The sun and the moon grow dark, : and the stars no longer shine. 
Then when they emptied out their sacks, every one of them found his bag of money; and when they saw the money, they and their father Jacob were afraid. 
He burnt down the Temple, the palace, and the houses of all the important people in Jerusalem; 
Be sympathetic even if his mind fails him; don't look down on him just because you are strong and healthy. 
Try to learn what pleases the Lord. 
If they tell us to wait for them to come to us, then we will stay where we are. 
The other beasts had their power taken away, but they were permitted to go on living for a limited time. 
Do not go back through your vineyard to gather the grapes that were missed or to pick up the grapes that have fallen; leave them for poor people and foreigners. I am the LORD your God. 
All the kings of the seafaring nations will come down from their thrones. They will take off their robes and their embroidered clothes and sit trembling on the ground. They will be so terrified at your fate that they will not be able to stop trembling. 
There was once a righteous man who was sold into slavery, but Wisdom did not abandon him. She kept him safe from sin. She went to prison with him 
Offer a burnt offering as a food offering to the LORD: two young bulls, one ram, and seven one-year-old male lambs, all without any defects. 
They purposely ignore the fact that long ago God gave a command, and the heavens and earth were created. The earth was formed out of water and by water, 
“I made the king of Egypt terrorize the living, but he and all his army will be killed and laid to rest with all the uncircumcised who die in battle.” The Sovereign LORD has spoken.
The LORD gave the following regulations. Do not have sexual intercourse with any of your relatives. 
Did Your Majesty approve all this and not even tell your officials who is to succeed you as king?” 
Yet I must be on my way today, tomorrow, and the next day; it is not right for a prophet to be killed anywhere except in Jerusalem. 
“The sight of all these who were killed in battle will be a comfort to the king of Egypt and his army,” says the Sovereign LORD. 
I was sincere in learning from her, and now I am glad to share what I learnt. 
such people could be ruined in a moment. Do you realize the disaster that God or the king can cause? 
But if, when he examines it, the priest finds that the mildew has not spread on the object, 
“When that time comes,” says the LORD Almighty, “a fountain will be opened to purify the descendants of David and the people of Jerusalem from their sin and idolatry. 
The next leader was Shamgar son of Anath. He too rescued Israel, and did so by killing 600 Philistines with an ox goad.
and will never tolerate evil. : I hate the actions of those who turn away from God; : I will have nothing to do with them. 
I, the LORD, will rescue all the descendants of Jacob, : and they will give me praise.
He was holy and good, but you rejected him, and instead you asked Pilate to do you the favour of turning loose a murderer. 
Getting wisdom is the most important thing you can do. Whatever else you get, get insight. 
“On the day I punish Edom, : I will destroy their clever men : and wipe out all their wisdom. 
God did this according to his eternal purpose, which he achieved through Christ Jesus our Lord. 
We should go on ahead of your wife and get the house ready before everyone else arrives. 
But in this letter I have been quite bold about certain subjects of which I have reminded you. I have been bold because of the privilege God has given me 
But later on I will make the people of Elam prosperous again. I, the LORD, have spoken.”
The prophets have hidden these sins like those covering a wall with whitewash. They see false visions and make false predictions. They claim to speak the word of the Sovereign LORD, but I, the LORD, have not spoken to them. 
death, violence, conflict, murder, disaster, famine, sickness, epidemic. 
How glorious he was when he came out of the Most Holy Place!  
Jesus said to them, “Be on guard, and don't let anyone deceive you.  
In his anger the king of Egypt will go to war against the king of Syria and capture his huge army. 
But Rachel had not borne Jacob any children, and so she became jealous of her sister and said to Jacob, “Give me children, or I will die.” 
And now he is not just a slave, but much more than a slave: he is a dear brother in Christ. How much he means to me! And how much more he will mean to you, both as a slave and as a brother in the Lord! 
The LORD sent armed bands of Babylonians, Syrians, Moabites, and Ammonites against Jehoiakim to destroy Judah, as the LORD had said through his servants the prophets that he would do. 
Our appeal to you is not based on error or impure motives, nor do we try to trick anyone. 
Abraham said, “Please forgive my boldness in continuing to speak to you, Lord. Suppose that only twenty are found?” : He said, “I will not destroy the city if I find twenty.” 
God, who has ruled from eternity, : will hear me and defeat them; : for they refuse to change, : and they do not fear him. 
“When a person is accused of wronging another and is brought to your altar in this Temple to take an oath that he is innocent, 
So God made Emperor Pul of Assyria (also known as Tiglath Pileser) invade their country. He deported the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh and settled them permanently in Halah, Habor, and Hara, and by the River Gozan.
Happy are those whose sins are forgiven, : whose wrongs are pardoned. 
The Israelites were satisfied and praised God. They no longer talked about going to war to devastate the land where the people of Reuben and Gad had settled. 
With your mighty strength you divided the sea : and smashed the heads of the sea monsters; 
I will be glad and rejoice : because of your constant love. : You see my suffering; : you know my trouble. 
To him a club is a piece of straw, : and he laughs when men throw spears. 
and said, “This is the place where the priests are to boil the meat offered as sacrifices for sin or as repayment offerings, and to bake the offerings of flour, so that nothing holy is carried to the outer courtyard, where it might harm the people.” 
Some time later King Nahash of Ammon died, and his son Hanun became king. 
(You people must tell them that the gods who did not make the earth and the sky will be destroyed. They will no longer exist anywhere on earth.) 
I have given her time to repent of her sins, but she does not want to turn from her immorality.  
or sleeping like a stillborn child. 
But Elisha said, “Wasn't I there in spirit when the man got out of his chariot to meet you? This is no time to accept money and clothes, olive groves and vineyards, sheep and cattle, or servants! 
a time is coming when everything in your palace, everything that your ancestors have stored up to this day, will be carried off to Babylonia. Nothing will be left. 
The well into which Ishmael threw the bodies of the men he had killed was the large one that King Asa had dug when he was being attacked by King Baasha of Israel. Ishmael filled the well with the bodies. 
Happy are those who are concerned for the poor; : the LORD will help them when they are in trouble. 
Anyone who comes to me and listens to my words and obeys them — I will show you what he is like.  
These are the names of the twelve apostles: first, Simon (called Peter) and his brother Andrew; James and his brother John, the sons of Zebedee; 
They will turn away from listening to the truth and give their attention to legends. 
A woman's beauty makes a man happy; there is no fairer sight for the human eye to see. 
Hanani, one of my brothers, arrived from Judah with another group, and I asked them about Jerusalem and about our fellow-Jews who had returned from exile in Babylonia. 
David obeyed the LORD's command and went as Gad had told him. 
I have decided to obey your laws : until the day I die. 
Stubborn as wild donkeys, the people of Israel go their own way. They have gone off to seek help from Assyria, and have paid other nations to protect them. 
Then the heads of the clans of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin, the priests and Levites, and everyone else whose heart God had moved got ready to go and rebuild the LORD's Temple in Jerusalem. 
But now, by means of the physical death of his Son, God has made you his friends, in order to bring you, holy, pure, and faultless, into his presence. 
but he stood his ground and fought the Philistines until his hand was so stiff that he could not let go of his sword. The LORD won a great victory that day. After it was over, the Israelites returned to where Eleazar was and stripped the armour from the dead. 
And may the LORD make it possible for each of you to marry again and have a home.” : So Naomi kissed them goodbye. But they started crying 
“The Father loves me because I am willing to give up my life, in order that I may receive it back again.  
That country will become a pile of ruins where wild animals live. It will be a horrible sight; no one will live there, and all who see it will be terrified. 
These were the cities of refuge chosen for all the people of Israel and for any foreigner living among them. Anyone who killed a person accidentally could find protection there from the one looking for revenge; no one could be killed without first receiving a public trial.
The Spirit of the LORD will give him wisdom, : and the knowledge and skill to rule his people. : He will know the LORD's will and honour him, 
You are like a dove that hides : in the crevice of a rock. : Let me see your lovely face : and hear your enchanting voice. 
he will send on you and on your descendants incurable diseases and horrible epidemics that can never be stopped. 
A wicked person may kill someone, but cannot bring the dead person back to life or rescue a soul imprisoned in the world of the dead. 
Meanwhile, Anna sat looking down the road for her son. 
Joseph bought a linen sheet, took the body down, wrapped it in the sheet, and placed it in a tomb which had been dug out of solid rock. Then he rolled a large stone across the entrance to the tomb. 
No matter how much it costs you to get Wisdom, it will be well worth it. 
There was a total of 276 of us on board. 
While I was still imprisoned in the palace courtyard, the LORD told me 
When you enter the land that the LORD has promised to give you, you must perform this ritual. 
Can't you see why this has happened? 
This is the family of Aaron and Moses at the time the LORD spoke to Moses on Mount Sinai. 
The birds will come and perch on the fallen tree, and the wild animals will walk over its branches. 
He makes them listen to what he says, : and they are frightened at his warnings. 
His stony heart is without fear, : as unyielding and hard as a millstone. 
“Then the servant who had been given 2,000 coins came in and said, ‘You gave me 2,000 coins, sir. Look! Here are another 2,000 that I have earned.’  
I will be your father, : and you shall be my sons and daughters, : says the Lord Almighty.”
Those men are not true apostles — they are false apostles, who lie about their work and disguise themselves to look like real apostles of Christ. 
This decree was to take effect throughout the Persian Empire on the day set for the slaughter of the Jews, the thirteenth of Adar, the twelfth month. 
wait outside and let him bring it to you himself. 
If a person is insolent and arrogant, he may lose everything he has. 
I was ready to let him come in. : My hands were covered with myrrh, : my fingers with liquid myrrh, : as I grasped the handle of the door. 
They will hold you up with their hands : to keep you from hurting your feet on the stones. 
Condemning the innocent or letting the wicked go — both are hateful to the LORD. 
On that day do none of your daily work, but gather for worship. Your descendants are to observe this regulation for all time to come, no matter where they live. 
That made me concerned for my holy name, since the Israelites brought disgrace on it everywhere they went. 
Kohath's third son, Hebron, had four sons: Jeriah, Amariah, Jahaziel, and Jekameam. 
He said, “I tell you that this poor widow put in more than all the others.  
But I replied, “No, Sovereign LORD! I have never defiled myself. From childhood on I have never eaten meat from any animal that died a natural death or was killed by wild animals. I have never eaten any food considered unclean.” 
Beth Arabah, Zemaraim, Bethel, 
While the Israelites were camping at Gilgal on the plain near Jericho, they observed Passover on the evening of the fourteenth day of the month. 
You have made the LORD your defender, : the Most High your protector, 
“Do not move your neighbour's boundary mark, established long ago in the land that the LORD your God is giving you. 
A second angel followed the first one, saying, “She has fallen! Great Babylon has fallen! She made all peoples drink her wine — the strong wine of her immoral lust!” 
The gatekeeper opens the gate for him; the sheep hear his voice as he calls his own sheep by name, and he leads them out.  
Be patient and listen a little longer : to what I am saying on God's behalf. 
I heard a cry, like a woman in labour, : a scream like a woman bearing her first child. : It was the cry of Jerusalem gasping for breath, : stretching out her hand and saying, : “I am doomed! : They are coming to kill me!”
Those of you who try to be put right with God by obeying the Law have cut yourselves off from Christ. You are outside God's grace. 
Jonah went out east of the city and sat down. He made a shelter for himself and sat in its shade, waiting to see what would happen to Nineveh. 
Do not work for food that goes bad; instead, work for the food that lasts for eternal life. This is the food which the Son of Man will give you, because God, the Father, has put his mark of approval on him.” 
“I was living comfortably in my palace, enjoying great prosperity. 
Remember, O LORD, your kindness and constant love : which you have shown from long ago. 
Abigail went back to Nabal, who was at home having a feast fit for a king. He was drunk and in a good mood, so she did not tell him anything until the next morning. 
Then he went from in front of the Temple into the living quarters of Jehohanan son of Eliashib, and spent the night there grieving over the unfaithfulness of the exiles. He did not eat or drink anything. 
Finally, those under the banner of the division led by the tribe of Dan, serving as the rearguard of all the divisions, would start out, company by company, with Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai in command. 
“Go,” Jesus told them; so they left and went off into the pigs. The whole herd rushed down the side of the cliff into the lake and was drowned. 
But he has always given evidence of his existence by the good things he does: he gives you rain from heaven and crops at the right times; he gives you food and fills your hearts with happiness.” 
Whenever the creatures moved, the wheels moved with them, and if the creatures rose up from the earth, so did the wheels. 
Then he prayed aloud, “O LORD my God, why have you done such a terrible thing to this widow? She has been kind enough to take care of me, and now you kill her son!” 
I know what Israel is like — she cannot hide from me. She has been unfaithful, and her people are unfit to worship me.” 
you would surely have discovered it, : because you know our secret thoughts. 
where Balak slaughtered cattle and sheep and gave some of the meat to Balaam and the leaders who were with him. 
He rubbed my face in the ground and broke my teeth on the gravel. 
Don't forgive the evil they do and don't forget their sins, for they have insulted us who are building.” 
As long as he lived, Saul had to fight fiercely against the Philistines. So whenever he found a man who was strong or brave, he would enlist him in his army.
The priest shall examine him again on the seventh day, and if the sore has faded and has not spread, he shall pronounce him ritually clean; it is only a sore. The person shall wash his clothes and be ritually clean. 
I will send an angel to guide you, and I will drive out the Canaanites, the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. 
Then Peter spoke up, “Look, we have left everything and followed you.” 
So the LORD said to Satan, “All right, he is in your power, but you are not to kill him.” 
Judith gave her slave woman a leather bag of wine and a jar of oil to carry. She filled a bag with roasted barley, cakes of dried figs, and several loaves of bread baked according to Jewish food laws. She carefully wrapped all the food and dishes and gave them to her slave. 
He must remain in heaven until the time comes for all things to be made new, as God announced through his holy prophets who lived long ago. 
“Mortal man, denounce the city of Sidon. 
When the exiles arrived at the LORD's Temple in Jerusalem, some of the leaders of the clans gave freewill offerings to help rebuild the Temple on its old site. 
and when they came to Jesus, they saw the man who used to have the mob of demons in him. He was sitting there, clothed and in his right mind; and they were all afraid. 
“Can anyone be righteous in the sight of God : or be pure before his Creator? 
How often does a man catch his enemy and then let him get away unharmed? The LORD bless you for what you have done to me today! 
They shall put a fine leather cover over it, spread a blue cloth on top, and then insert the carrying poles. 
“Now, write down this song. Teach it to the people of Israel, so that it will stand as evidence against them. 
Job, you upset me. Now I'm impatient to answer. 
The disciples were upset and began to ask him, one after the other, “Surely you don't mean me, do you?” 
The third of the famous three was Shammah son of Agee, from Harar. The Philistines had gathered at Lehi, where there was a field of peas. The Israelites fled from the Philistines, 
Trouble follows sinners everywhere, but righteous people will be rewarded with good things. 
But if that happens when the owner is present, he need not repay. If it is a hired animal, the loss is covered by the hiring charge. 
But the Pharisees and the teachers of the Law rejected God's purpose for themselves and refused to be baptized by John. 
and Eliasaph son of Deuel was in command of the tribe of Gad. 
“I'm afraid not,” Jonathan answered. “His Majesty King David has made Solomon king. 
“Obey my commands. Do not crossbreed domestic animals. Do not plant two kinds of seed in the same field. Do not wear clothes made of two kinds of material. 
“Do you think you are going to be a king and rule over us?” his brothers asked. So they hated him even more because of his dreams and because of what he said about them. 
He said to her, “Please give me a drink of water; I'm thirsty.” She opened a leather bag of milk, gave him a drink, and hid him again. 
“Babylonia, you are filled with pride, so I, the Sovereign LORD Almighty, am against you! The time has come for me to punish you. 
The LORD is going to place a king over Israel who will put an end to Jeroboam's dynasty.  
Then they shot arrows at us from the wall, and some of Your Majesty's officers were killed; your officer Uriah was also killed.” 
because they oppressed and neglected the poor : and seized houses someone else had built. 
and say, ‘We did not murder this person, and we do not know who did it. 
When David was about to die, he called his son Solomon and gave him his last instructions
When I saw that they were not walking a straight path in line with the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter in front of them all, “You are a Jew, yet you have been living like a Gentile, not like a Jew. How, then, can you try to force Gentiles to live like Jews?” 
Do not even light a fire in your homes on the Sabbath.” 
but since the people in Jerusalem have already broken this law, the people of our town have sent messengers to the Council there requesting permission to do the same. 
My body is full of worms; : it is covered with scabs; : pus runs out of my sores. 
From Bethel it went to Luz, passing on to Ataroth Addar, where the Archites lived. 
Because Samuel was faithful, he was accepted as a true prophet. People trusted him as a seer because of his words. 
Then they camped at Dophkah, 
All those who had returned from exile then brought offerings to be burnt as sacrifices to the God of Israel. They offered twelve bulls for all Israel, 96 rams, and 77 lambs; they also offered twelve goats to purify themselves from sin. All these animals were burnt as sacrifices to the LORD. 
“But can you, O God, really live on earth among men and women? Not even all heaven is large enough to hold you, so how can this Temple that I have built be large enough? 
It was the power of his name that gave strength to this lame man. What you see and know was done by faith in his name; it was faith in Jesus that has made him well, as you can all see. 
I have not kept the news of salvation to myself; : I have always spoken of your faithfulness and help. : In the assembly of all your people I have not been silent : about your loyalty and constant love. 
If you had your way, no one would fear God; : no one would pray to him. 
They sharpen their tongues like swords : and aim cruel words like arrows. 
So they left and made the tomb secure by putting a seal on the stone and leaving the guard on watch.
This time, when the donkey saw the angel, it lay down. Balaam lost his temper and began to beat the donkey with his stick. 
In these times sons treat their fathers like fools, daughters oppose their mothers, and young women quarrel with their mothers-in-law; a person's enemies are the members of his own family. 
They would sit on a beautiful couch, and in front of them they would have a table covered with good things, including the incense and the olive oil that I had given them. 
May he continue his mercy to us and rescue us in our time of need. 
They threw me alive into a pit and closed the opening with a stone. 
They came to the Valley of Eshcol, and there they cut off a branch which had one bunch of grapes on it so heavy that it took two men to carry it on a pole between them. They also brought back some pomegranates and figs. 
God does not trust his heavenly servants; : he finds fault even with his angels. 
Now, my son,” Rebecca continued, “listen to me and do what I say. 
nor on those 600,000 people on the march through the wilderness who gathered together in stubborn rebellion. 
I will give you back what you lost : in the years when swarms of locusts ate your crops. : It was I who sent this army against you. 
Elisha answered, “Listen to what the LORD says! By this time tomorrow you will be able to buy in Samaria three kilogrammes of the best wheat or six kilogrammes of barley for one piece of silver.” 
His neck is so powerful : that all who meet him are terrified. 
Shabbethai and Jozabad, prominent Levites in charge of the work outside the Temple. 
he said, “Make sure you obey all these commands that I have given you today. Repeat them to your children, so that they may faithfully obey all God's teachings. 
They said to one another, “Come on! Let's make bricks and bake them hard.” So they had bricks to build with and tar to hold them together. 
You have made us an object of contempt among the nations; : they shake their heads at us in scorn. 
Elisha answered, “The LORD has revealed to me that he will die; but go to him and tell him that he will recover.” 
and Moses sent men to find the best way to attack the city of Jazer. The Israelites captured it and its surrounding towns and drove out the Amorites living there. 
So we urged Titus, who began this work, to continue it and help you complete this special service of love. 
The magicians were not able to appear before Moses, because they were covered with boils, like all the other Egyptians. 
“Please, Your Majesty, let me say just one more thing,” the woman said. : “All right,” he answered. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “say to the king of Egypt and all his people: : How powerful you are! : What can I compare you to? 
In a circle round the throne were 24 other thrones, on which were seated 24 elders dressed in white and wearing crowns of gold. 
You are pure to those who are pure, : but hostile to those who are wicked. 
So the LORD answers, : “Can a woman forget her own baby : and not love the child she bore? : Even if a mother should forget her child, : I will never forget you. 
So he went back and found Balak still standing by his burnt offering, with the leaders of Moab. Balak asked what the LORD had said, 
A skilled woodworker may saw down some suitable tree, carefully strip off the bark, and then, with skilful craftsmanship, make from it an object that will serve some useful purpose. 
Have you promised to be responsible for someone else's debts, my child? 
May his life soon be ended; : may someone else take his job! 
The Syrian invader will do with them as he pleases, without opposition. He will stand in the Promised Land and have it completely in his power. 
After this, Jesus went to Jerusalem for a religious festival. 
Jephthah fled from his brothers and lived in the land of Tob. There he attracted a group of worthless men, and they went round with him. 
The LORD Almighty will bring them crashing down like branches cut off a tree. The proudest and highest of them will be cut down and humiliated. 
Everyone there was crying and mourning for the child. Jesus said, “Don't cry; the child is not dead — she is only sleeping!” 
Then he ordered his chief official to go from Lachish to Jerusalem with a large military force to demand that King Hezekiah should surrender. The official occupied the road where the clothmakers work, by the ditch that brings water from the upper pond. 
At that time there was a man named Simeon living in Jerusalem. He was a good, God-fearing man and was waiting for Israel to be saved. The Holy Spirit was with him 
You may eat such animals at home. All of you, whether ritually clean or unclean, may eat them, just as you eat deer or antelope. 
He made a lid of pure gold, 110 centimetres long and 66 centimetres wide. 
Nothing bad happens to righteous people, but the wicked have nothing but trouble. 
The king took off his ring, which was used to stamp proclamations and make them official, and gave it to the enemy of the Jewish people, Haman son of Hammedatha, the descendant of Agag. 
One day Jesus was praying in a certain place. When he had finished, one of his disciples said to him, “Lord, teach us to pray, just as John taught his disciples.” 
Below these two rooms at the east end of the building, where the wall of the courtyard began, there was an entrance into the outer courtyard. : At the south side of the Temple there was an identical building not far from the building at the west end of the Temple. 
When a wife is in a bad mood, her expression changes until she looks like an angry bear. 
Other troops went with them. There were so many that it was impossible to count them — they were like a swarm of locusts or like grains of sand in the desert. 
Give thanks to the LORD, because he is good, : and his love is eternal. 
About this time, the king of Babylonia, Merodach Baladan, son of Baladan, heard that King Hezekiah had been ill, so he sent him a letter and a present. 
The clan of Gershon was assigned thirteen cities from the territories of Issachar, Asher, Naphtali, and East Manasseh. 
A city is happy when honest people have good fortune, and there are joyful shouts when the wicked die. 
Listen, my child, be wise and give serious thought to the way you live. 
Then Eliakim, Shebna, and Joah told the official, “Speak Aramaic to us, sir. We understand it. Don't speak Hebrew; all the people on the wall are listening.” 
Then some Sadducees, who say that people will not rise from death, came to Jesus and said, 
Once when large crowds of people were going along with Jesus, he turned and said to them, 
So be careful to obey and do everything that is written in the book of the Law of Moses. Do not neglect any part of it, 
A stupid person is evil and does evil things; he plots to ruin the poor with lies and to prevent them getting their rights. 
I will tell the north to let them go : and the south not to hold them back. : Let my people return from distant lands, : from every part of the world. 
The letter was addressed to all the Jews, and copies were sent to all the 127 provinces of the Persian Empire. It wished the Jews peace and security 
There was an investigation, and it was discovered that the report was true, so both men were hanged on the gallows. The king ordered an account of this to be written down in the official records of the empire.
No one is respected unless he is humble; arrogant people are on the way to ruin. 
It was on the basis of the levitical priesthood that the Law was given to the people of Israel. Now, if the work of the levitical priests had been perfect, there would have been no need for a different kind of priest to appear, one who is in the priestly order of Melchizedek, not of Aaron. 
Two days after my child was born she also gave birth to a baby boy. Only the two of us were there in the house — no one else was present. 
Jesus left that place, and as he walked along, he saw a tax collector, named Matthew, sitting in his office. He said to him, “Follow me.” : Matthew got up and followed him. 
Anyone who lives in the city, no matter which tribe he comes from, may farm that land. 
“Then tell us who you are,” they said. “We have to take an answer back to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself?” 
God did not invent death, and when living creatures die, it gives him no pleasure. 
He has given them skill in all kinds of work done by engravers, designers, and weavers of fine linen; blue, purple, and red wool; and other cloth. They are able to do all kinds of work and are skilful designers.
Stay here the rest of the night, and in the morning we will find out whether or not he will take responsibility for you. If so, well and good; if not, then I swear by the living LORD that I will take the responsibility. Now lie down and stay here till morning.” 
But those who should be in the Kingdom will be thrown out into the darkness, where they will cry and grind their teeth.”  
In the pass of Michmash, which Jonathan had to go through to get over to the Philistine camp, there were two large jagged rocks, one on each side of the pass: one was called Bozez and the other Seneh. 
The gold earrings that Gideon received weighed nearly twenty kilogrammes, and this did not include the ornaments, necklaces, and purple clothes that the kings of Midian wore, nor the collars that were round the necks of their camels. 
It is hard to remove a peg that is stuck between two stones of a house, and it is just as hard to remove dishonesty from buying and selling. 
make sure that you do not become proud and forget the LORD your God who rescued you from Egypt, where you were slaves. 
See that no one pays back wrong for wrong, but at all times make it your aim to do good to one another and to all people. 
When I send it down to the world of the dead, the noise of its downfall will shake the nations. All the trees of Eden and all the choice, well-watered trees of Lebanon who have gone to the world below will be pleased at its downfall. 
I will go on doing what I am doing now, in order to keep those other “apostles” from having any reason for boasting and saying that they work in the same way that we do. 
And so I praise you among the nations; : I sing praises to you. 
I swear by the living Almighty God, : who refuses me justice and makes my life bitter — 
Then he shall let the live bird fly away outside the city over the open fields. In this way he shall perform the ritual of purification for the house, and it will be ritually clean. 
When Jacob saw Rachel with his uncle Laban's flock, he went to the well, rolled the stone back, and watered the sheep. 
Give Joshua his instructions. Strengthen his determination, because he will lead the people across to occupy the land that you see.’ 
They are quick to spread their shameless lies; : they destroy good people with cowardly slander. 
When the poor cried out, I helped them; : I gave help to orphans who had nowhere to turn. 
I will hand them over to their enemies, who want to kill them, and their corpses will be eaten by birds and wild animals. 
And when you stand and pray, forgive anything you may have against anyone, so that your Father in heaven will forgive the wrongs you have done.” 
I will overthrow all the nations, and their treasures will be brought here, and the Temple will be filled with wealth. 
But you, O LORD, have seen this. : So don't be silent, Lord; : don't keep yourself far away! 
So it was the LORD, the God of Israel, who drove out the Amorites for his people, the Israelites. 
He has shut me in a prison of misery and anguish. 
And I am not saying this because I feel neglected, for I have learnt to be satisfied with what I have. 
As all the people listened to him, Jesus said to his disciples, 
If you are in Goshen, I can take care of you. There will still be five years of famine; and I do not want you, your family, and your livestock to starve.’ ” 
That is why I run straight for the finishing line; that is why I am like a boxer who does not waste his punches. 
Then the angel said, “Fasten your belt and put on your sandals.” Peter did so, and the angel said, “Put your cloak round you and come with me.” 
He has shown his power to his people : by giving them the lands of foreigners. 
The LORD said to Hosea, “Name him ‘Not-my-People’, because the people of Israel are not my people, and I am not their God.” 
Wake up, Lord! Why are you asleep? : Rouse yourself! Don't reject us for ever! 
Any kind of food can be eaten, but some foods are better than others. 
I thought to myself, “I will suffer the same fate as fools. So what have I gained from being so wise?” “Nothing,” I answered, “not a thing.” 
The Jewish authorities in Jerusalem sent some priests and Levites to John, to ask him, “Who are you?” 
After a severe beating, they were thrown into jail, and the jailer was ordered to lock them up tight. 
“Israel, you are my dearest son, : the child I love best. : Whenever I mention your name, : I think of you with love. : My heart goes out to you; : I will be merciful. 
“Don't be alarmed,” he said. “I know you are looking for Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He is not here — he has been raised! Look, here is the place where they put him. 
Because the LORD is righteous, he will save Jerusalem and everyone there who repents. 
and when he finds one that is unusually fine, he goes and sells everything he has, and buys that pearl. 
Ephron answered, 
saying to him, “Don't be afraid. My father Saul won't be able to harm you. He knows very well that you are the one who will be the king of Israel and that I will be next in rank to you.” 
Praise the LORD for ever! : Amen! Amen!
Aaron obeyed and placed the lamps facing the front of the lampstand. 
When he arrived, he made the camels kneel down at the well outside the city. It was late afternoon, the time when women came out to get water. 
Then David crossed over to the other side of the valley to the top of the hill, a safe distance away, 
Then tell them that the LORD has said, ‘Your ancestors turned away from me and worshipped and served other gods. They abandoned me and did not obey my teachings. 
For their sake he remembered his covenant, : and because of his great love he relented. 
Your constant love is better than life itself, : and so I will praise you. 
Guaranteeing loans has ruined many prosperous people and caused them unsettling storms of trouble. 
Only the wise know what things really mean. Wisdom makes them smile and makes their frowns disappear. 
And if you have not been faithful with what belongs to someone else, who will give you what belongs to you? 
All those who knew Jesus personally, including the women who had followed him from Galilee, stood at a distance to watch. 
We want you to know, my fellow-Israelites, that it is through Jesus that the message about forgiveness of sins is preached to you; 
Is there anyone here who is engaged to be married? If so, he is to go home. Otherwise, if he is killed in battle, someone else will marry the woman he is engaged to.’ 
I went to stay with Gedaliah in Mizpah and lived among the people who were left in the land. 
When Abner came to David at Hebron with twenty men, David gave a feast for them. 
Crowds of people came out to John to be baptized by him. “You snakes!” he said to them. “Who told you that you could escape from the punishment God is about to send? 
A person who kills someone accidentally can go there and escape the one who is looking for revenge. 
And so the LORD himself says that he is going to get rid of you. Before this year is over you will die because you have told the people to rebel against the LORD.” 
Samuel killed a young lamb and burnt it whole as a sacrifice to the LORD. Then he prayed to the LORD to help Israel, and the LORD answered his prayer. 
I have seen a vision of cruel events, a vision of betrayal and destruction. : Army of Elam, attack! Army of Media, lay siege to the cities! God will put an end to the suffering which Babylon has caused. 
The baby's sister stood some distance away to see what would happen to him. 
That good man lived among them, and day after day he suffered agony as he saw and heard their evil actions. 
The priest shall order everything to be moved out of the house before he goes to examine the mildew; otherwise everything in the house will be declared unclean. Then he shall go to the house 
“He is alive and well,” they replied. : Then Tobias added, “Tobit is my father.” 
For seven days the Syrians and the Israelites stayed in their camps, facing each other. On the seventh day they started fighting, and the Israelites killed a hundred thousand Syrians. 
This seemed like good advice to Absalom and all the Israelite leaders. 
“I am giving you all the best of the first produce which the Israelites give me each year: olive oil, wine, and corn. 
Jacob said, “No, please, if I have gained your favour, accept my gift. To see your face is for me like seeing the face of God, now that you have been so friendly to me. 
On the last and most important day of the festival Jesus stood up and said in a loud voice, “Whoever is thirsty should come to me, and  
“Do not deny justice to a poor person when he appears in court. 
He said, “Go to Nineveh, that great city, and speak out against it; I am aware how wicked its people are.” 
On the second day offer twelve young bulls, two rams, and fourteen one-year-old male lambs, all without any defects. 
But those who do not have them are so short-sighted that they cannot see and have forgotten that they have been purified from their past sins. 
The righteous see this and are glad, : but all the wicked are put to silence. 
In anger God tears me limb from limb; : he glares at me with hate. 
His officials also made contributions for the people, the priests, and the Levites to use. And the officials in charge of the Temple — Hilkiah, the High Priest, Zechariah, and Jehiel — gave the priests 2,600 lambs and young goats and 300 bulls for sacrifices during the festival. 
Then Shechem said to Dinah's father and brothers, “Do me this favour, and I will give you whatever you want. 
The LORD says to his people, “I will come to Jerusalem to defend you and to save all of you that turn from your sins. 
The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has never put it out. 
and he went to meet King Asa. He called out, “Listen to me, King Asa, and all you people of Judah and Benjamin! The LORD is with you as long as you are with him. If you look for him, he will let you find him, but if you turn away, he will abandon you. 
So Achish said to his officials, “Look! The man is mad! Why did you bring him to me? 
Being cheerful keeps you healthy. It is slow death to be gloomy all the time. 
Elkanah, Joel, Azariah, Zephaniah, 
“The northern border will follow a line from the Mediterranean to Mount Hor 
I will remember my promise to you and to all the animals that a flood will never again destroy all living beings. 
A sinner who hopes to make a profit by guaranteeing a loan is going to find himself involved in lawsuits. 
The LORD is king, : and he rules the nations. 
Paul placed his hands on them, and the Holy Spirit came upon them; they spoke in strange tongues and also proclaimed God's message. 
They outnumber us, so please come and put a curse on them for me. Then perhaps we will be able to defeat them and drive them out of the land. I know that when you pronounce a blessing, people are blessed, and when you pronounce a curse, they are placed under a curse.” 
He did this only in order to teach each generation of Israelites about war, especially those who had never been in battle before. 
“Who told you that you were naked?” God asked. “Did you eat the fruit that I told you not to eat?” 
Suddenly she saw him coming and shouted out to Tobit, “Look! Our son is coming, and his friend is with him!” 
Christ's message in all its richness must live in your hearts. Teach and instruct each other with all wisdom. Sing psalms, hymns, and sacred songs; sing to God with thanksgiving in your hearts. 
I asked, “How long will it be like this, Lord?” : He answered, “Until the cities are ruined and empty — until the houses are uninhabited — until the land itself is a desolate waste. 
You know the message he sent to the people of Israel, proclaiming the Good News of peace through Jesus Christ, who is Lord of all. 
You are our God. When your people Israel moved into this land, you drove out the people who were living here and gave the land to the descendants of Abraham, your friend, to be theirs for ever. 
Come as living stones, and let yourselves be used in building the spiritual temple, where you will serve as holy priests to offer spiritual and acceptable sacrifices to God through Jesus Christ. 
No one has ever learnt your will, unless you first gave him Wisdom, and sent your Holy Spirit down to him. 
It will be a day of fury, a day of trouble and distress, a day of ruin and destruction, a day of darkness and gloom, a black and cloudy day, 
But where can wisdom be found? : Where can we learn to understand? 
“From the age of 25 each Levite shall perform his duties in the Tent of my presence, 
That is why the LORD has told the people of Israel that neither they nor any foreigner living among them shall eat any meat with blood still in it. 
Your faithfulness endures through all the ages; : you have set the earth in place, and it remains. 
In Jerusalem Jehoshaphat appointed Levites, priests, and some of the leading citizens as judges in cases involving a violation of the Law of the LORD or legal disputes between inhabitants of the city.  
of playing around with his slave woman (keep away from her bed!) : of insulting your friends, : of following up your gifts with criticism, 
As for you, even the hairs of your head have all been counted.  
I will give you many descendants, and they will become a great nation. I will bless you and make your name famous, so that you will be a blessing. 
When Paul arrived, the Jews who had come from Jerusalem stood round him and started making many serious charges against him, which they were not able to prove. 
You will agree, then, that I was not a burden to you. But someone will say that I was crafty, and trapped you with lies. 
Those who had precious stones gave them to the temple treasury, which was administered by Jehiel of the Levite clan of Gershon. 
“Why do you ask me to give Abishag to him?” the king asked. “You might as well ask me to give him the throne too. After all, he is my elder brother, and Abiathar the priest and Joab are on his side!”  
Gather the tribes of Israel together again, and give them back their land as you gave it to them long ago. 
Then I said to the flock, “I will not be your shepherd any longer. Let those who are to die, die. Let those who are to be destroyed, be destroyed. Those who are left will destroy one another.” 
No, I will give my own answer now : and tell you what I think. 
In a little while the world will see me no more, but you will see me; and because I live, you also will live.  
When the man mentioned the Covenant Box, Eli fell backwards from his seat beside the gate. He was so old and fat that the fall broke his neck, and he died. He had been a leader in Israel for forty years. 
Judith dedicated to God all Holofernes' property, which the people had given to her. And as a special offering in fulfilment of a vow, she presented to the Lord the mosquito net which she had taken from Holofernes' bed. 
Mount four rows of precious stones on it; in the first row mount a ruby, a topaz, and a garnet; 
Are Lebanon's rocky heights ever without snow? : Do its cool mountain streams ever run dry? 
Just then a messenger arrived and said to Saul, “Come back at once! The Philistines are invading the country!” 
“So I lay face downwards in the LORD's presence those forty days and nights, because I knew that he was determined to destroy you. 
but the firstborn of an unclean animal may be bought back at the standard price plus an additional twenty per cent. If it is not bought back, it may be sold to someone else at the standard price. 
How can you say that you are wise, and that you know my laws? Look, the laws have been changed by dishonest scribes. 
King of Egypt, where are those clever advisers of yours? Perhaps they can tell you what plans the LORD Almighty has for Egypt. 
Intelligent people talk sense, but stupid people need to be punished. 
Those who are slaves must consider their masters worthy of all respect, so that no one will speak evil of the name of God and of our teaching. 
Jesus saw them and said to them, “Go and let the priests examine you.” : On the way they were made clean.  
For where two or three come together in my name, I am there with them.” 
God spoke to Moses and said, “I am the LORD. 
The LORD told Moses 
Some of the disciples from Caesarea also went with us and took us to the house of the man we were going to stay with — Mnason, from Cyprus, who had been a believer since the early days. 
The officer took him, led him to the commander, and said, “The prisoner Paul called me and asked me to bring this young man to you, because he has something to say to you.” 
Have the Jews then any advantage over the Gentiles? Or is there any value in being circumcised? 
and said, ‘Don't be afraid, Paul! You must stand before the Emperor. And God in his goodness to you has spared the lives of all those who are sailing with you.’ 
They make evil plans and say, : “We have planned a perfect crime.” : The human heart and mind are a mystery. 
Some years later, at harvest time, the boy went out one morning to join his father, who was in the field with the harvest workers. 
The LORD said to me, : “I have a greater task for you, my servant. : Not only will you restore to greatness : the people of Israel who have survived, : but I will also make you a light to the nations — : so that all the world may be saved.” 
And David said to Abishai and to all his officials, “My own son is trying to kill me; so why should you be surprised at this Benjaminite? The LORD told him to curse; so leave him alone and let him do it. 
“Only a member of a priestly family may eat any of the sacred offerings; no one else may eat them — not even someone staying with a priest or hired by him. 
That same day King Xerxes gave Queen Esther all the property of Haman, the enemy of the Jews. Esther told the king that Mordecai was related to her, and from then on Mordecai was allowed to enter the king's presence. 
You will forgive them and put them away; : you will wipe out all the wrongs I have done. 
So then, the LORD says about Josiah's son Jehoiakim, king of Judah, : “No one will mourn his death or say, : ‘How terrible, my friend, how terrible!’ : No one will weep for him or cry, : ‘My lord! My king!’ 
You have given me life and constant love, : and your care has kept me alive. 
“Whoever says a word against the Son of Man can be forgiven; but those who say evil things against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven. 
The Israelites had the enemy trapped, and without stopping they pursued them as far as a point east of Gibeah, killing them as they went.  
God asked me, “Mortal man, do you see what the Israelite leaders are doing in secret? They are all worshipping in a room full of images. Their excuse is: ‘The LORD doesn't see us! He has abandoned the country.’ ” 
But that night an angel of the Lord opened the prison gates, led the apostles out, and said to them, 
Laban answered Jacob, “These young women are my daughters; their children belong to me, and these flocks are mine. In fact, everything you see here belongs to me. But since I can do nothing to keep my daughters and their children, 
Pay attention to what old people say, for they learnt from those who came before them. You can learn from them, and they can teach you how to have an answer ready when you need one. 
They presented the head to King David at Hebron and said to him, “Here is the head of Ishbosheth, the son of your enemy Saul, who tried to kill you. Today the LORD has allowed Your Majesty to take revenge on Saul and his descendants.” 
Then the dazzling light of the LORD's presence left the entrance of the Temple and moved to a place above the creatures. 
O God, do not keep silent; : do not be still, do not be quiet! 
Everything that comes from the earth goes back to the earth, just as all water flows into the sea. 
Now, concerning what you wrote about the money to be raised to help God's people in Judea. You must do what I told the churches in Galatia to do. 
For sin pays its wage — death; but God's free gift is eternal life in union with Christ Jesus our Lord.
As the man held on to Peter and John in Solomon's Porch, as it was called, the people were amazed and ran to them. 
These will serve as cities of refuge for Israelites and for foreigners who are temporary or permanent residents. Anyone who kills someone accidentally can escape to one of them. 
People of Judah, do not weep for King Josiah; : do not mourn his death. : But weep bitterly for Joahaz, his son; : they are taking him away, never to return, : never again to see the land where he was born. 
Be merciful to us, LORD, be merciful; : we have been treated with so much contempt. 
You are to give the Levites six cities of refuge to which a man can escape if he kills someone accidentally. In addition, give them 42 other cities 
But you must teach what agrees with sound doctrine. 
Eli's daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was pregnant, and it was almost time for her baby to be born. When she heard that God's Covenant Box had been captured and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she suddenly went into labour and gave birth. 
Then all the Israelites, rich and poor alike, together with the army officers, left and went to Egypt, because they were afraid of the Babylonians. 
Then I asked him, “What do the two olive trees on either side of the lampstand mean? 
A fool can use a proverb about as well as crippled people can use their legs. 
Be silent, everyone, in the presence of the LORD, for he is coming from his holy dwelling place.
The first human being ever created never knew Wisdom completely, and the last person on earth will be no more successful. 
Abram answered, “I solemnly swear before the LORD, the Most High God, Maker of heaven and earth, 
and asked, “Where is the baby born to be the king of the Jews? We saw his star when it came up in the east, and we have come to worship him.” 
But Moses said, “Then why are you disobeying the LORD now? You will not succeed! 
His legs were also protected by bronze armour, and he carried a bronze javelin slung over his shoulder. 
I will guide you through the central part of the land of Judah until we come to Jerusalem, where I will crown you king in the centre of the city. You will scatter the people of Jerusalem like sheep without a shepherd. Not even a dog will dare to growl at you. God has revealed these things to me in advance and has sent me to report them to you.” 
Put no more confidence in mortals. What are they worth?Now the Lord, the Almighty LORD, is about to take away from Jerusalem and Judah everything and everyone that the people depend on. He is going to take away their food and their water, 
But I protested, “Sovereign LORD, don't make me do it! Everyone is already complaining that I always speak in riddles.”
Tobit was very worried. 
If a man wishes to buy any of it back, he must pay the standard price plus an additional twenty per cent. 
I will make the borders of your land extend from the Gulf of Aqaba to the Mediterranean Sea and from the desert to the Euphrates River. I will give you power over the inhabitants of the land, and you will drive them out as you advance. 
The channels of the river will stink as they slowly go dry. Reeds and rushes will wither, 
His brother Hotham had four sons: Zophah, Imna, Shelesh, and Amal. 
Rescue me, LORD, as you have promised; : in your goodness save me from my troubles! 
So the brothers took the gifts and twice as much money, and set out for Egypt with Benjamin. There they presented themselves to Joseph. 
They fear the light of day, : but darkness holds no terror for them. 
Peter went out and wept bitterly. 
Then they said to the king, “Daniel, one of the exiles from Judah, does not respect Your Majesty or obey the order you issued. He prays regularly three times a day.” 
Then the LORD God took some soil from the ground and formed a man out of it; he breathed life-giving breath into his nostrils and the man began to live. 
Potiphar handed over everything he had to the care of Joseph and did not concern himself with anything except the food he ate. : Joseph was well-built and good-looking, 
and it will not end until he has done everything he intends to do. In days to come his people will understand this clearly.” 
After this, Jesus and his disciples went to the province of Judea, where he spent some time with them and baptized. 
Then the LORD said, “I have seen how cruelly my people are being treated in Egypt; I have heard them cry out to be rescued from their slave-drivers. I know all about their sufferings, 
Tell them, ‘My father placed heavy burdens on you; I will make them even heavier. He beat you with a whip; I'll flog you with a horsewhip!’ ” 
The people paid no attention to Samuel, but said “No! We want a king, 
For he said to Moses, “I will have mercy on anyone I wish; I will take pity on anyone I wish.” 
He saved them from those who hated them; : he rescued them from their enemies. 
And so you tormented those who were foolish enough to live wickedly — you tormented them with the horrible things they worshipped. 
Early each morning all the people went to the Temple to listen to him.
the Tent of my presence, the Covenant Box and its lid, all the furnishings of the Tent, 
Then he commanded, “Let the earth produce all kinds of plants, those that bear grain and those that bear fruit” — and it was done. 
It is the same with the potter, sitting at his wheel and turning it with his feet, always concentrating on his work, concerned with how many objects he can produce. 
The priest shall dip his finger in the blood of the animal, put it on the projections at the corners of the altar, and pour out the rest of it at the base of the altar. 
Israel, why then do you complain : that the LORD doesn't know your troubles : or care if you suffer injustice? 
Do all this in prayer, asking for God's help. Pray on every occasion, as the Spirit leads. For this reason keep alert and never give up; pray always for all God's people. 
When God's people were defeated and humiliated : by cruel oppression and suffering, 
If she is a virgin, he worries that she might be seduced and become pregnant while living in his house. If she is married, he worries that she might be unfaithful, or that she might not be able to have children. 
So he left them and went to live in the house of a Gentile named Titius Justus, who worshipped God; his house was next to the synagogue. 
The LORD asked him, “What have you been doing?” : Satan answered, “I have been walking here and there, roaming round the earth.” 
You will not have to worry about sudden disasters, such as come on the wicked like a storm. 
Then the officials sent Jehudi (the son of Nethaniah, grandson of Shelemiah, and great-grandson of Cushi) to tell Baruch to bring the scroll that he had read to the people. Baruch brought them the scroll. 
Philip ran over and heard him reading from the book of the prophet Isaiah. He asked him, “Do you understand what you are reading?” 
He fought against the king of Ammon and his army and defeated them. Then he forced the Ammonites to pay him the following tribute each year for three years: 3.4 tonnes of silver, 1,000 tonnes of wheat, and 1,000 tonnes of barley. 
The LORD says, “People of Israel, if you want to turn, then turn back to me. If you are faithful to me and remove the idols I hate, 
Jerusalem, all the foreigners who attack you will be blown away like dust, and their terrifying armies will fly away like straw. Suddenly and unexpectedly 
But when they came into this land and took possession of it, they did not obey your commands or live according to your teaching; they did nothing that you had ordered them to do. And so you brought all this destruction on them. 
I am pulled in two directions. I want very much to leave this life and be with Christ, which is a far better thing; 
“Now, mortal man, prophesy. Clap your hands, and the sword will strike again and again. It is a sword that kills, a sword that terrifies and slaughters. 
I ask that your minds may be opened to see his light, so that you will know what is the hope to which he has called you, how rich are the wonderful blessings he promises his people, 
If you promise to pay a stranger's debt, you will regret it. You are better off if you don't get involved. 
The only city that made peace with the people of Israel was Gibeon, where some of the Hivites lived. All the others were conquered in battle. 
Down from the mountains of the north came the Assyrians, : with their tens of thousands of soldiers. : Their troops blocked the rivers in the valleys; : their cavalry covered the mountains. 
The ostrich leaves her eggs on the ground : for the heat in the soil to warm them. 
Never think less of someone because he is old; some of us are growing old, too. 
to keep the nation from rising again and to make sure that the treaty would be kept. 
Judith came into the tent and sat down there. Holofernes was aroused when he saw her and had an uncontrollable desire to make love to her. From the first day he had seen her, he had been waiting for a chance to seduce her. 
until the emperor resettles you in a country much like your own, where there are vineyards to give wine and there is corn for making bread; it is a land of olives, olive oil, and honey. If you do what he commands, you will not die, but live. Don't let Hezekiah fool you into thinking that the LORD will rescue you. 
Some Pharisees came to him and tried to trap him. “Tell us,” they asked, “does our Law allow a man to divorce his wife?” 
This is what the Sovereign LORD says: “You stripped off your clothes and, like a prostitute, you gave yourself to your lovers and to all your disgusting idols, and you killed your children as sacrifices to idols. 
Then Peter said, “I swear that I am telling the truth! May God punish me if I am not! I do not know that man!” : Just then a cock crowed, 
So now this is what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying: I am giving the land of Egypt to King Nebuchadnezzar. He will loot and plunder it and carry off all the wealth of Egypt as his army's pay. 
Eat me, and you will hunger for more; : drink me, and you will thirst for more. 
But you, O LORD, are always my shield from danger; : you give me victory : and restore my courage. 
The wind blows wherever it wishes; you hear the sound it makes, but you do not know where it comes from or where it is going. It is like that with everyone who is born of the Spirit.” 
“No one can be a slave of two masters; he will hate one and love the other; he will be loyal to one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money. 
This means that the children born in the usual way are not the children of God; instead, the children born as a result of God's promise are regarded as the true descendants. 
He stood by the royal column and made a covenant with the LORD to obey him, to keep his laws and commands with all his heart and soul, and to put into practice the demands attached to the covenant, as written in the book. 
and have stopped holding on to Christ, who is the head of the body. Under Christ's control the whole body is nourished and held together by its joints and ligaments, and it grows as God wants it to grow. 
A little bit is plenty for anyone with good manners. Besides, you won't be short of breath when you go to bed. 
The people of Jerusalem were greatly alarmed at this because Gibeon was as large as any of the cities that had a king; it was larger than Ai, and its men were good fighters. 
The fighting between the forces supporting Saul's family and those supporting David went on for a long time. As David became stronger and stronger, his opponents became weaker and weaker. 
Speak for them and be a righteous judge. Protect the rights of the poor and needy.” 
Compared with the troubles caused by a woman, any other trouble looks small. May such women suffer the fate of sinners! 
rich and powerful men living peacefully at home. 
But it is one and the same Spirit who does all this; as he wishes, he gives a different gift to each person. 
So Moses cut two more stone tablets, and early the next morning he carried them up Mount Sinai, just as the LORD had commanded. 
Since there were not enough priests to kill all these animals, the Levites helped them until the work was finished. By then more priests had made themselves ritually clean. (The Levites were more faithful in keeping ritually clean than the priests were.) 
Her beautiful face and attractive figure are as lovely as the light from the sacred lampstand in the Temple, 
Instead, they will swear by me as the living God who brought the people of Israel out of a northern land and out of all the other countries where I had scattered them. Then they will live in their own land.” 
They kept on stoning Stephen as he called out to the Lord, “Lord Jesus, receive my spirit!” 
And no one wants new wine after drinking old wine. ‘The old is better,’ he says.”
“But as soon as they entered the land at Adam, they broke the covenant I had made with them. 
He chose his servant David; : he took him from the pastures, 
Let me tell you about Leviathan's legs : and describe how great and strong he is. 
Abraham said, “Please don't be angry, Lord, and I will speak just once more. What if only ten are found?” : He said, “I will not destroy it if there are ten.” 
Because King Ahaz sinned, the LORD his God let the king of Syria defeat him and take a large number of Judeans back to Damascus as prisoners. The LORD also let the king of Israel, Pekah son of Remaliah, defeat Ahaz and kill 120,000 of the bravest Judean soldiers in one day. The LORD, the God of their ancestors, permitted this to happen, because the people of Judah had abandoned him. 
I am innocent, but I no longer care. : I am sick of living. 
But Paul said to the army officer and soldiers, “If the sailors don't stay on board, you have no hope of being saved.” 
The sons of Jacob came with others to buy corn, because there was famine in the land of Canaan. 
And Jesus concluded, “Listen, then, if you have ears!” 
“I have already told you that a king's secret ought to be kept, but the things God does should be told to everyone. Now I will reveal to you the full truth and keep nothing back. 
The LORD told me to say to the people, “I, the LORD, have said that you must obey me by following the teaching that I gave you, 
“All the princes of the north are there, and so are the Sidonians. Their power once spread terror, but now they go down in disgrace with those killed in battle and are laid to rest, uncircumcised. They share the disgrace of those who go down to the world of the dead. 
When the Canaanite king of Arad in the southern part of Canaan heard that the Israelites were coming by way of Atharim, he attacked them and captured some of them. 
Libnah, Adullam, 
Speak and act as people who will be judged by the law that sets us free. 
Even at Mount Sinai you made the LORD angry — angry enough to destroy you. 
For my sake you will be brought to trial before rulers and kings, to tell the Good News to them and to the Gentiles.  
For God never said to any of his angels: : “You are my Son; : today I have become your Father.” : Nor did God say about any angel, : “I will be his Father, : and he will be my Son.” 
So have nothing at all to do with such people. 
“Why should we be afraid of these Israelites?” they asked. “They are weak; they can't put up a strong defence. 
Like an inspired prophet, I pour out my teachings, so that future generations can benefit from them. 
These are the names of David's famous soldiers: the first was Josheb Basshebeth from Tachemon, who was the leader of “The Three”; he fought with his spear against 800 men and killed them all in one battle. 
The LORD said to Moses, 
Now tell them what I, the Sovereign LORD, have to say about that. I will put an end to that proverb. It won't be repeated in Israel any more. Tell them instead: the time has come, and the predictions are coming true! 
Offer with them all the other offerings required for the first day. 
Many of the older priests, Levites, and heads of clans had seen the first Temple, and as they watched the foundation of this Temple being laid, they cried and wailed. But the others who were there shouted for joy. 
Instead of rain, the LORD will send down duststorms and sandstorms until you are destroyed. 
They had so many wives and children that their descendants were able to provide 36,000 men for military service. 
I remember the days gone by; : I think about all that you have done, : I bring to mind all your deeds. 
That is not our plan. A man named Sheba son of Bikri, who is from the hill country of Ephraim, started a rebellion against King David. Hand over this one man, and I will withdraw from the city.” : “We will throw his head over the wall to you,” she said. 
Save us by your might; answer my prayer, : so that the people you love may be rescued. 
My brothers and sisters, what good is it for people to say that they have faith if their actions do not prove it? Can that faith save them? 
I have already told him that I am going to punish his family for ever because his sons have spoken evil things against me. Eli knew they were doing this, but he did not stop them. 
The LORD will know if you are gloating, and he will not like it; and then he might not punish them. 
and his clothes became shining white — whiter than anyone in the world could wash them. 
with these orders: “Hide on the other side of the city, but not too far away from it; be ready to attack. 
Both the prophet and the one who consults him will get the same punishment. 
At that time I will pour out my Spirit : even on servants, both men and women. 
There is no one on earth who does what is right all the time and never makes a mistake. 
The LORD continued to reveal himself at Shiloh, where he had appeared to Samuel and had spoken to him. And when Samuel spoke, all Israel listened.
Destroy every nation that the LORD your God places in your power, and do not show them any mercy. Do not worship their gods, for that would be fatal. 
The LORD said to his people, “I scattered you in all directions. But now, you exiles, escape from Babylonia and return to Jerusalem. 
Who can live and never die? : How can human beings keep themselves from the grave? 
Praise God with shouts of joy, all people! 
They were glad because of the calm, : and he brought them safe to the port they wanted. 
The people of Israel forgot the LORD their God; they sinned against him and worshipped the idols of Baal and Asherah. 
Don't let the oppressed be put to shame; : let those poor and needy people praise you. 
If my troubles and griefs were weighed on scales, 
Then the LORD let Balaam see the angel standing there with his sword; and Balaam threw himself face downwards on the ground. 
You cry out, ‘Sword of the LORD! : How long will you go on slashing? : Go back to your scabbard, : stay there and rest!’ 
But none of this means a thing to me as long as I see that Jew Mordecai sitting at the entrance of the palace.” 
But in the traps they set for others, : they themselves get caught. 
“You will see ‘The Awful Horror’ standing in the place where he should not be.” (Note to the reader: be sure to understand what this means!) “Then those who are in Judea must run away to the hills.  
The crowd scolded them and told them to be quiet. But they shouted even more loudly, “Son of David! Take pity on us, sir!” 
See how much the Father has loved us! His love is so great that we are called God's children — and so, in fact, we are. This is why the world does not know us: it has not known God. 
“So my heart mourns for Moab and for the people of Kir Heres, like someone playing a funeral song on a flute, because everything they owned is gone. 
Judith shouted, “Praise God, give him praise! Praise God, who has not held back his mercy from the people of Israel. Tonight he has used me to destroy our enemies.” 
Can this be the joyful city of Tyre, founded so long ago? Is this the city that sent settlers across the sea to establish colonies? 
He is the one who will build it and receive the honour due to a king, and he will rule his people. A priest will stand by his throne, and they will work together in peace and harmony.’ 
The LORD said to him, “This plant grew up in one night and disappeared the next; you didn't do anything for it, and you didn't make it grow — yet you feel sorry for it! 
Then they went back home and prepared the spices and perfumes for the body. : On the Sabbath they rested, as the Law commanded.
Instead, this is what the prophet Joel spoke about
“Just as the LORD your God promised your ancestors, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, he will give you a land with large and prosperous cities which you did not build. 
So an Israelite priest who had been deported from Samaria went and lived in Bethel, where he taught the people how to worship the LORD. 
But I will honour the covenant I made with you when you were young, and I will make a covenant with you that will last for ever. 
So then, you that rule the nations, if you value your thrones and symbols of authority, honour Wisdom so that you may rule for ever. 
may he make us obedient to him, so that we will always live as he wants us to live, and keep all the laws and commands he gave our ancestors. 
Then the horses came galloping on, : stamping the ground with their hooves. 
Once when the nations were frustrated in their wicked plans, Wisdom recognized a righteous man and kept him innocent in God's sight. She gave him strength to obey God's command in spite of his love for his son. 
Zelophehad son of Hepher had no sons, but only daughters; their names were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah. 
It is wise to lock things up if you cannot trust your wife or if too many people are around. 
They are instantly destroyed; : they go down to a horrible end. 
I groan with sadness for Moab, with grief for Kir Heres. 
But the vine had already been planted in a fertile, well-watered field so that it could grow leaves and bear grapes and be a magnificent vine. 
He went back home and said to his father and mother, “There is a Philistine woman down at Timnah who has caught my attention. Get her for me; I want to marry her.” 
I have always said that wisdom is better than strength, but no one thinks of the poor as wise or pays any attention to what they say. 
For indeed Herod and Pontius Pilate met together in this city with the Gentiles and the people of Israel against Jesus, your holy Servant, whom you made Messiah. 
People from one end of the world to the other honour me. Everywhere they burn incense to me and offer acceptable sacrifices. All of them honour me! 
The God of Jacob is not like them; : he is the one who made everything, : and he has chosen Israel to be his very own people. : The LORD Almighty is his name. 
In the territory of West Manasseh they were assigned the towns of Aner and Bileam with the surrounding pasture lands. 
For it seems to me that God has given the very last place to us apostles, like people condemned to die in public as a spectacle for the whole world of angels and of humanity. 
Jehoshaphat son of Paruah: the territory of Issachar 
You that live in Dibon, : come down from your place of honour : and sit on the ground in the dust; : Moab's destroyer is here : and has left its forts in ruins. 
When Ham, the father of Canaan, saw that his father was naked, he went out and told his two brothers. 
and four wagons and eight oxen to the Merarites. All their work was to be done under the direction of Ithamar son of Aaron. 
Whoever has the Son has this life; whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. 
These are the descendants of Merari from generation to generation: Mahli, Libni, Shimei, Uzzah, 
Put all things to the test: keep what is good 
Save your people, LORD, : and bless those who are yours. : Be their shepherd, : and take care of them for ever.
Then God commanded, “Let the water below the sky come together in one place, so that the land will appear” — and it was done. 
The short night was half over, and all was quiet and peaceful, 
Then out of the storm the LORD spoke to Job once again. 
But the Jews stirred up the leading men of the city and the Gentile women of high social standing who worshipped God. They started a persecution against Paul and Barnabas and threw them out of their region. 
Take with you seven pairs of each kind of ritually clean animal, but only one pair of each kind of unclean animal. 
Isaac said, “Bring me some of the meat. After I have eaten it, I will give you my blessing.” Jacob brought it to him, and he also brought him some wine to drink. 
I will pay the Babylonians back for what they have done, and many nations and great kings will make slaves of them.’ ” 
People of influence, rulers, and judges will be honoured, but none of them is greater than a person who fears the Lord. 
I would like you to be free from worry. An unmarried man concerns himself with the Lord's work, because he is trying to please the Lord. 
Just as the king had ordered, he chose 120,000 of the best infantrymen and 12,000 of the best mounted archers 
He said, “Follow me! The LORD has given you victory over your enemies, the Moabites.” So they followed Ehud down and captured the place where the Moabites were to cross the Jordan; they did not allow a single man to cross. 
Now go off home! I promised to reward you, but the LORD has kept you from getting the reward.” 
Jesus answered, “Be on your guard, and do not let anyone deceive you.  
Do not have intercourse with a half-sister; she, too, is your sister. 
I am telling you the truth: those who believe in me will do what I do — yes, they will do even greater things, because I am going to the Father.  
Stephen answered, “Brothers and fathers, listen to me! Before our ancestor Abraham had gone to live in Haran, the God of glory appeared to him in Mesopotamia 
He had a fleet of ocean-going ships sailing with Hiram's fleet. Every three years his fleet would return, bringing gold, silver, ivory, apes, and monkeys. 
He dethrones kings and makes them prisoners; 
You will wear yourself out and these people as well. This is too much for you to do alone. 
and he chose twelve, whom he named apostles. “I have chosen you to be with me,” he told them. “I will also send you out to preach,  
his second son Salma founded Bethlehem, and his third son Hareph founded Bethgader. 
then as soon as his attention is called to the sin, he shall bring as his offering a female goat without any defects. 
When evening came, the boat was in the middle of the lake, while Jesus was alone on land. 
Nobody feels sorry for snake charmers or wild animal tamers who get bitten, 
Martha said to Jesus, “If you had been here, Lord, my brother would not have died! 
I sent a reply to him: “Nothing of what you are saying is true. You have made it all up yourself.” 
You have seized me; you are my enemy. : I am skin and bones, : and people take that as proof of my guilt. 
I have not eaten any of it when I was mourning; I have not taken any of it out of my house when I was ritually unclean; and I have not given any of it as an offering for the dead. I have obeyed you, O LORD; I have done everything you commanded concerning the tithe. 
but water would come up from beneath the surface and water the ground. 
Now, Job, make peace with God : and stop treating him like an enemy; : if you do, then he will bless you. 
No lion or other fierce beast : Ever travels those lonely roads. 
“Whoever curses his father or his mother is to be put to death. 
He waited for me like a bear; he pounced on me like a lion. 
He said to me, “Watch, mortal man. Listen carefully and pay close attention to everything I show you, because this is why you were brought here. You are to tell the people of Israel everything you see.” 
Those who find me find life, : and the LORD will be pleased with them. 
Solomon made 200 large shields, each of which was covered with about seven kilogrammes of beaten gold, 
“To have good fruit you must have a healthy tree; if you have a poor tree, you will have bad fruit. A tree is known by the kind of fruit it bears.  
He sets the time for sorrow and the time for joy, : the time for mourning and the time for dancing, 
If it seems worthwhile for me to go, then they can go along with me. 
“Judgement has come on the cities of the plateau: on Holon, Jahzah, Mephath, 
which turn the waters to stone : and freeze the face of the sea? 
Nothing is brighter than the sun, but even the sun's light fails during an eclipse. How much easier it is for human thoughts to be eclipsed by evil! 
My heart breaks when I remember the past, : when I went with the crowds to the house of God : and led them as they walked along, : a happy crowd, singing and shouting praise to God. 
When the men saw Judith after she had changed her clothes and put on make-up, they were struck by her beauty and said to her, 
Suddenly the LORD sent a wind that brought quails from the sea, flying less than a metre above the ground. They settled on the camp and all round it for many kilometres in every direction.  
We'll find all kinds of riches and fill our houses with loot! 
As Jehu was carrying out God's sentence on the dynasty, he came across a group made up of Judean leaders and of Ahaziah's nephews that had accompanied Ahaziah on his visit. Jehu killed them all. 
I cry aloud for help, but God refuses to listen; 
So the king gave orders for Daniel to be arrested and he was thrown into the pit filled with lions. He said to Daniel, “May your God, whom you serve so loyally, rescue you.” 
the rest were to follow, holding on to the planks or to some broken pieces of the ship. And this was how we all got safely ashore.
I have heard that the spirit of the holy gods is in you and that you are skilful and have knowledge and wisdom. 
All night long those people slept the same restless sleep, even though the night held no power over them, since it came from the powerless depths of the world of the dead. 
On the seventh day he shall return and examine it again. If the mildew has spread, 
Judith went to the bedpost by Holofernes' head and took down his sword. 
Wake up, my harp and lyre! : I will wake up the sun. 
The priest of the god Zeus, whose temple stood just outside the town, brought bulls and flowers to the gate, for he and the crowds wanted to offer sacrifice to the apostles. 
However, for the sake of your father David I will not do this in your lifetime, but during the reign of your son. 
The community of Israel shall give Aaron two male goats for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering. 
from Phrygia and Pamphylia, from Egypt and the regions of Libya near Cyrene. Some of us are from Rome, 
Evilmerodach treated him kindly and gave him a position of greater honour than he gave the other kings who were exiles with him in Babylonia. 
Lazy people who refuse to work are only killing themselves; 
Here are the rocks that I have piled up between us, and here is the memorial stone. 
When Haman left the banquet he was happy and in a good mood. But then he saw Mordecai at the entrance of the palace, and when Mordecai did not rise or show any sign of respect as he passed, Haman was furious with him. 
Show us your constant love, O LORD, : and give us your saving help. 
Boaz went to the meeting place at the town gate and sat down there. Then Elimelech's nearest relative, the man whom Boaz had mentioned, came by, and Boaz called to him, “Come over here, my friend, and sit down.” So he went over and sat down. 
The beauty of a good wife in her well-kept home is like the noonday sun shining in the Lord's sky. 
and arrange yourselves so that some of you will be available to help each family of the people of Israel. 
Some time later, as the number of disciples kept growing, there was a quarrel between the Greek-speaking Jews and the native Jews. The Greek-speaking Jews claimed that their widows were being neglected in the daily distribution of funds. 
The people did everything the LORD had commanded Moses concerning the Levites. And so the Levites were qualified to work in the Tent under Aaron and his sons. 
It would be like a destructive, hellish fire, : consuming everything I have. 
When Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib intended to attack Jerusalem also, 
The Israelites set out on foot from Rameses for Sukkoth. There were about 600,000 men, not counting women and children. 
Undisciplined people find Wisdom's demands too hard and don't have enough determination to meet them. 
I tell you,” said Jesus, “the tax collector, and not the Pharisee, was in the right with God when he went home. For all who make themselves great will be humbled, and all who humble themselves will be made great.” 
This is a true saying, to be completely accepted and believed. 
Delilah said to Samson, “Look, you've been making a fool of me and not telling me the truth. Please tell me how someone could tie you up.” 
He shall present it as a special offering to the LORD, so that you may be accepted. The priest shall present it the day after the Sabbath. 
This book is the record of the events that Jesus Christ revealed. God gave him this revelation in order to show his servants what must happen very soon. Christ made these things known to his servant John by sending his angel to him, 
At this the High Priest tore his clothes and said, “Blasphemy! We don't need any more witnesses! You have just heard his blasphemy! 
The more fuel, the hotter the fire. The more stubbornness, the hotter the argument. And the stronger or richer people are, the angrier they can afford to become. 
It will produce weeds and thorns, and you will have to eat wild plants. 
So she said to him, “How can you say you love me, when you don't mean it? You've made a fool of me three times, and you still haven't told me what makes you so strong.” 
So they seized him, threw him out of the vineyard, and killed him. 
Do not be afraid, my people! : You know that from ancient times until now : I have predicted all that would happen, : and you are my witnesses. : Is there any other god? : Is there some powerful god I never heard of?” 
He shall take some of the bull's blood and with his finger sprinkle it on the front of the lid and then sprinkle some of it seven times in front of the Covenant Box. 
From head to foot there is not a healthy spot on your body. You are covered with bruises and sores and open wounds. Your wounds have not been cleaned or bandaged. No ointment has been put on them. 
They will have money to lend you, but you will have none to lend them. In the end they will be your rulers. 
The following six sons, in the order of their birth, were born to David at Hebron
When they sow the wind, they will reap a storm! A field of corn that doesn't ripen can never produce any bread. But even if it did, foreigners would eat it up. 
My soul will feast and be satisfied, : and I will sing glad songs of praise to you. 
You make worthless plans and everything you do is useless. My spirit is like a fire that will destroy you.  
Then the LORD sent a fire that blazed out and burnt up the 250 men who had presented the incense. 
but they saw him walking on the water. “It's a ghost!” they thought, and screamed. 
The men who were travelling with Saul had stopped, not saying a word; they heard the voice but could not see anyone. 
Come back to your right senses and stop your sinful ways. I declare to your shame that some of you do not know God. 
Tell them that as surely as I, the Sovereign LORD, am the living God, I do not enjoy seeing sinners die. I would rather see them stop sinning and live. Israel, stop the evil you are doing. Why do you want to die? 
It is through faith that all of you are God's children in union with Christ Jesus. 
There you will stay, I tell you, until you pay the last penny of your fine.”
The personal attendant of the king said to Elisha, “That can't happen — not even if the LORD himself were to send grain at once!” : “You will see it happen, but you will never eat any of the food,” Elisha replied. 
Give him some of your own authority, so that the whole community of Israel will obey him. 
“Tell your children how you went and stood at the foot of the mountain which was covered with thick clouds of dark smoke and fire blazing up to the sky. 
Don't stay so far away, O God; : my God, hurry to my aid! 
What are my sins? What wrongs have I done? : What crimes am I charged with? 
in the assembly of the Most High, in the presence of his power. 
I was undecided about how I could get information on these matters, so I asked Paul if he would be willing to go to Jerusalem and be tried there on these charges. 
“If a slave woman is the recognized concubine of a man and she has not been paid for and freed, then if another man has sexual relations with her, they will be punished but not put to death, since she is a slave. 
When the Devil finished tempting Jesus in every way, he left him for a while. 
After he had washed his face, he came out, and controlling himself, he ordered the meal to be served. 
The LORD said, “Mortal man, your people are talking about you when they meet by the city walls or in the doorways of their houses. They say to one another, ‘Let's go and hear what word has come from the LORD now.’ 
Jerusalem, you have been like a childless woman, : but now you can sing and shout for joy. : Now you will have more children : than a woman whose husband never left her! 
How happy are those servants whose master finds them awake and ready when he returns! I tell you, he will take off his coat, ask them to sit down, and will wait on them.  
John was the man the prophet Isaiah was talking about when he said: : “Someone is shouting in the desert, : ‘Prepare a road for the Lord; : make a straight path for him to travel!’ ” 
The LORD had appeared to Isaac and had said, “Do not go to Egypt; stay in this land, where I tell you to stay. 
Abraham answered, “Make sure that you don't send my son back there! 
The Babylonians came to have sex with her. They used her and defiled her so much that finally she became disgusted with them. 
They also asked for the names of all the men who were helping to build the Temple. 
If I wanted to boast, I would not be a fool, because I would be telling the truth. But I will not boast, because I do not want anyone to have a higher opinion of me than he has as a result of what he has seen me do and heard me say. 
May our barns be filled : with crops of every kind. : May the sheep in our fields : bear young by the tens of thousands. 
Your eyes are like a lamp for the body. When your eyes are sound, your whole body is full of light; but when your eyes are no good, your whole body will be in darkness.  
Stand up straight now, : and answer my questions. 
He put the gold altar in the Tent, in front of the curtain, 
No one who speaks wickedly will escape notice; sooner or later he will receive just punishment. 
So that day they were very happy as they ate and drank in the presence of the LORD. : For a second time they proclaimed Solomon king. In the name of the LORD they anointed him as their ruler and Zadok as priest. 
But promise me in the LORD's name that you will spare my descendants, so that my name and my family's name will not be completely forgotten.” 
Many are the rulers who have suffered disgrace. Many are the famous people who have fallen into the power of others. 
“He will boldly raise a large army to attack the king of Egypt, who will prepare to fight back with a huge and powerful army. But the king of Egypt will be deceived and will not be successful. 
‘These people, says God, honour me with their words, :   but their heart is really far away from me. 
How I wish I were with you now, so that I could take a different attitude towards you. I am so worried about you! 
He has no use for conceited people, but shows favour to those who are humble. 
King David heard that because of the Covenant Box the LORD had blessed Obed Edom's family and all that he had; so he fetched the Covenant Box from Obed's house to take it to Jerusalem with a great celebration. 
They killed many of the enemy, because the war was God's will. And they went on living in that territory until the exile. 
Saul recognized David's voice and asked, “David, is that you, my son?” : “Yes, Your Majesty,” David answered. 
In the fourteenth year that Hezekiah was king of Judah, Sennacherib, the emperor of Assyria, attacked the fortified cities of Judah and captured them. 
Mordecai had these events written down and sent letters to all the Jews, near and far, throughout the Persian Empire, 
I will break your stubborn pride; there will be no rain, and your land will be dry and as hard as iron. 
The people started grumbling about him, because he said, “I am the bread that came down from heaven.”  
I will turn Babylon into a marsh, and owls will live there. I will sweep Babylon with a broom that will sweep everything away. I, the LORD Almighty, have spoken.” 
His disciples said to him, “If this is how it is between a man and his wife, it is better not to marry.” 
The people who had returned from exile celebrated Passover on the fourteenth day of the first month of the following year. 
One day Ruth said to Naomi, “Let me go to the fields to gather the corn that the harvest workers leave. I am sure to find someone who will let me work with him.” : Naomi answered, “Go ahead, my daughter.” 
If you take this one from me now and something happens to him, the sorrow you would cause me would kill me, old as I am.’ 
Some people brought him a man who was deaf and could hardly speak, and they begged Jesus to place his hands on him. 
“If someone hits his male or female slave in the eye and puts it out, he is to free the slave as payment for the eye. 
I will remove the locust army that came from the north : and will drive some of them into the desert. : Their front ranks will be driven into the Dead Sea, : their rear ranks into the Mediterranean. : Their dead bodies will stink. : I will destroy them because of all they have done to you. 
Then he led them out of the city as far as Bethany, where he raised his hands and blessed them. 
But I want you to go there the next time the people are fasting. You are to read the scroll aloud, so that they will hear everything that the LORD has said to me and that I have dictated to you. Do this where everyone can hear you, including the people of Judah who have come in from their towns. 
Yes, may you come to know his love — although it can never be fully known — and so be completely filled with the very nature of God. 
There was one bud below each of the three pairs of branches. 
Don't let me bring shame on those who trust in you, : Sovereign LORD Almighty! : Don't let me bring disgrace to those who worship you, : O God of Israel! 
Blind fools! Which is more important, the gold or the Temple which makes the gold holy?  
The lame will leap and dance, : and those who cannot speak will shout for joy. : Streams of water will flow through the desert; 
Later on, Tobit's wife died and was buried beside her husband. Then Tobias and his wife moved to Ecbatana in Media, where they lived with Raguel, Tobias' father-in-law. 
After four years Absalom said to King David, “Sir, let me go to Hebron and keep a promise I made to the LORD. 
I urge you by the authority of the Lord to read this letter to all the believers. 
She followed Paul and us, shouting, “These men are servants of the Most High God! They announce to you how you can be saved!” 
The people had not been able to celebrate the Passover Festival at the proper time, in the first month, because not enough priests were ritually clean and not many people had assembled in Jerusalem. So King Hezekiah, his officials, and the people of Jerusalem agreed to celebrate it in the second month, and the king sent word to all the people of Israel and Judah. He took special care to send letters to the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh, inviting them to come to the Temple in Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover in honour of the LORD, the God of Israel. 
So then, when the time comes for the land to be given back to the LORD's people, there will be no share for any of you. 
Simon himself also believed; and after being baptized, he stayed close to Philip and was astounded when he saw the great wonders and miracles that were being performed. 
the charge was one small coin for sharpening axes and for repairing ox goads, and two coins for sharpening ploughs or hoes.) 
“When you lend a neighbour something, do not go into his house to get the garment he is going to give you as security; 
He sacrificed his son as a burnt offering. He practised divination and magic and consulted fortune tellers and mediums. He sinned greatly against the LORD and stirred up his anger. 
“Woman, why are you crying?” they asked her. : She answered, “They have taken my Lord away, and I do not know where they have put him!” 
Uzziah reconquered and rebuilt Elath after his father's death. 
who will kill him; but three days later he will be raised to life.” : The disciples became very sad. 
Heshbon was the capital city of the Amorite king Sihon, who had fought against the former king of Moab and had captured all his land as far as the River Arnon. 
The LORD said, “Now, mortal man, I will take away from them the strong Temple that was their pride and joy, which they liked to look at and to visit. And I will take away their sons and daughters. 
He helps us in all our troubles, so that we are able to help others who have all kinds of troubles, using the same help that we ourselves have received from God. 
This was the real light — the light that comes into the world and shines on everyone. 
What, then, can I hope for, Lord? : I put my hope in you. 
But some of the believers who belonged to the party of the Pharisees stood up and said, “The Gentiles must be circumcised and told to obey the Law of Moses.” 
He must do the same when he lights the lamps in the evening. This offering of incense is to continue without interruption for all time to come. 
They will run out of bread and water; they will be in despair, and they will waste away because of their sins.”
You used to be honoured with the music of harps, but now here you are in the world of the dead. You lie on a bed of maggots and are covered with a blanket of worms.’ 
“But can you, O God, really live on earth? Not even all heaven is large enough to hold you, so how can this Temple that I have built be large enough? 
The angel appeared again and said, “Look! Something else is coming!” 
No descendant of Aaron the priest who has any physical defect may present the food offering to me. 
The LORD Almighty says that he will send this curse out, and it will enter the house of every thief and the house of everyone who tells lies under oath. It will remain in their houses and leave them in ruins.” 
He took all the silver and gold he could find, all the temple equipment and all the palace treasures, and carried them back to Samaria. He also took hostages with him. 
Once there was a man named Enoch who pleased God, and God loved him. While Enoch was still living among sinners, God took him away, 
When they bring you to trial, do not worry about what you are going to say or how you will say it; when the time comes, you will be given what you will say.  
Saul and David finished their conversation. After that, Saul's son Jonathan was deeply attracted to David and came to love him as much as he loved himself. 
All these buildings and the great court were made of fine stones from the foundations to the eaves. The stones were prepared at the quarry and cut to measure, with their inner and outer sides trimmed with saws. 
and put its people to work with saws, iron hoes, and iron axes, and forced them to work at making bricks. He did the same to the people of all the other towns of Ammon. Then he and his men returned to Jerusalem.
Who asked you to bring me all this when you come to worship me? Who asked you to do all this tramping about in my Temple? 
but the men and women who are worthy to rise from death and live in the age to come will not then marry.  
and he also saw a very poor widow dropping in two little copper coins. 
After the ceremony they began the meal. 
How short you have made my life! : In your sight my lifetime seems nothing. : Indeed every living being is no more than a puff of wind, 
There are many who pray: : “Give us more blessings, O LORD. : Look on us with kindness!” 
They said, “We were twelve brothers in all, sir, sons of the same man in the land of Canaan. One brother is dead, and the youngest is now with our father.” 
I have tested you in the fire of suffering, : as silver is refined in a furnace. : But I have found that you are worthless. 
The woman went over to him and saw that he was terrified, so she said to him, “Please, sir, I risked my life by doing what you asked. 
Simon Peter answered, “You are the Messiah, the Son of the living God.” 
Jokshan was the father of Sheba and Dedan, and the descendants of Dedan were the Asshurim, the Letushim, and the Leummim. 
But the Babylonian army pursued them and captured Zedekiah in the plains near Jericho. Then they took him to King Nebuchadnezzar, who was in the city of Riblah in the territory of Hamath, and there Nebuchadnezzar passed sentence on him. 
Moses left the king, went out of the city, and lifted up his hands in prayer to the LORD. The thunder, the hail, and the rain all stopped. 
Phinehas, the son of Eleazar the priest, said to them, “Now we know that the LORD is with us. You have not rebelled against him, and so you have saved the people of Israel from the LORD's punishment.” 
The people of Israel left Rephidim, and on the first day of the third month after they had left Egypt they came to the desert of Sinai. There they set up camp at the foot of Mount Sinai, 
The woman he marries will turn out to be irresponsible, and his children will go wrong. 
The people broke camp at the command of the LORD, and at his command they set up camp. As long as the cloud stayed over the Tent, they stayed in the same camp. 
Jesus said to the fig tree, “No one shall ever eat figs from you again!” : And his disciples heard him. 
The whole community of Israel must celebrate this festival, 
A lazy person will think he is more intelligent than seven people who can give good reasons for their opinions. 
Homes are built on the foundation of wisdom and understanding.  
You are not a God who is pleased with wrongdoing; : you allow no evil in your presence. 
It was then that I promised to take them out of Egypt and lead them to a land I had chosen for them, a rich and fertile land, the finest land of all. 
In addition, Nebuzaradan, the commanding officer, took away as prisoners Seraiah the High Priest, Zephaniah the priest next in rank, and the three other important temple officials. 
I will never neglect your instructions, : because by them you have kept me alive. 
People cast lots to learn God's will, but God himself determines the answer.
But the wine steward never gave Joseph another thought — he forgot all about him.
While Peter was still speaking, the Holy Spirit came down on all those who were listening to his message. 
Moses asked about the goat for the sin offering and learnt that it had already been burnt. This made him angry with Eleazar and Ithamar, and he demanded, 
“You say that the LORD has given you prophets in Babylonia. 
My bitterness will turn into peace. : You save my life from all danger; : You forgive all my sins. 
(Jesus already knew who was going to betray him; that is why he said, “All of you, except one, are clean.”) 
She exposed herself publicly and let everyone know she was a whore. I was as disgusted with her as I had been with her sister. 
He sent a warning to the Kenites, a people whose ancestors had been kind to the Israelites when they came from Egypt: “Go away and leave the Amalekites, so that I won't kill you along with them.” So the Kenites left. 
In Susa, the capital city itself, the Jews killed 500 people. 
I have made every effort to prepare materials for the Temple — gold, silver, bronze, iron, timber, precious stones and gems, stones for mosaics, and quantities of marble. 
The LORD has made me weak while I am still young; : he has shortened my life. 
do not carry a beggar's bag for the journey or an extra shirt or shoes or a stick. Workers should be given what they need. 
When Jesus had said this, a woman spoke up from the crowd and said to him, “How happy is the woman who bore you and nursed you!” 
But you can only see your selfish interests; : you kill the innocent : and violently oppress your people. : The LORD has spoken. 
John was like a lamp, burning and shining, and you were willing for a while to enjoy his light.  
I looked up and saw two women flying towards me with powerful wings like those of a stork. They picked up the basket and flew off with it. 
Jehoahaz had no armed forces left except fifty horsemen, ten chariots, and 10,000 men on foot, because the king of Syria had destroyed the rest, trampling them down like dust. 
A day is coming when people will sing, : “Give thanks to the LORD! Call for him to help you! : Tell all the nations what he has done! : Tell them how great he is! 
They are both going to the same place — the dust. They both came from it; they will both go back to it. 
Show the same love to wise servants that you would show to yourself, and let them have their freedom. 
What is this coming from the desert like a column of smoke, : fragrant with incense and myrrh, : the incense sold by the traders? 
Happy are those who follow his commands, : who obey him with all their heart. 
Shechem's father Hamor went out to talk with Jacob, 
With some of the wood he makes a fire; he roasts meat, eats it, and is satisfied. He warms himself and says, “How nice and warm! What a beautiful fire!” 
People from the tribes of Judah, Benjamin, Ephraim, and Manasseh went to live in Jerusalem. 
The scripture predicted that God would put the Gentiles right with himself through faith. And so the scripture announced the Good News to Abraham: “Through you God will bless the whole human race.” 
You let our enemies trample over us; : we went through fire and flood, : but now you have brought us to a place of safety. 
“You and your sons are not to enter the Tent of my presence after drinking wine or beer; if you do, you will die. This is a law to be kept by all your descendants. 
“Nations, you must praise the LORD's people — : he punishes all who kill them. : He takes revenge on his enemies : and forgives the sins of his people.” 
He will even set up his huge royal tents between the sea and the mountain on which the Temple stands. But he will die, with no one there to help him.”
In front of his companions and the Samaritan troops he said, “What do these miserable Jews think they're doing? Do they intend to rebuild the city? Do they think that by offering sacrifices they can finish the work in one day? Can they make building stones out of heaps of burnt rubble?” 
There were too many dead bodies to count. There were not enough people left to bury them all. In a single moment their dearest children died; all of them met death in the same way. 
It is a disgrace to a father to have an undisciplined child, especially if it is a daughter. 
Give praise to the LORD; : he has heard my cry for help. 
After I have driven out the nations before you and extended your territory, no one will try to conquer your country during the three festivals. 
They answered, “When you sit on your throne in your glorious Kingdom, we want you to let us sit with you, one at your right and one at your left.” 
She is a reflection of eternal light, a perfect mirror of God's activity and goodness. 
so that everyone will know your mighty deeds : and the glorious majesty of your kingdom. 
Men who live far away will come and help to rebuild the Temple of the LORD. And when it is rebuilt, you will know that the LORD Almighty sent me to you. This will all happen if you fully obey the commands of the LORD your God.
So David said to all his officials who were with him in Jerusalem, “We must get away at once if we want to escape from Absalom! Hurry! Or else he will soon be here and defeat us and kill everyone in the city!” 
The LORD is my protector; : he is my strong fortress. 
As they were untying the colt, its owners said to them, “Why are you untying it?” 
and they have built altars for Baal in order to burn their children in the fire as sacrifices. I never commanded them to do this; it never even entered my mind. 
But the servant who had received 1,000 coins went off, dug a hole in the ground, and hid his master's money. 
Now, however, I will send my officers to search your palace and the homes of your officials, and to take everything they consider valuable. They will be there about this time tomorrow.” 
He also tore down the tower at Penuel and killed the men of that city. 
Howl with grief, you sailors out on the ocean! The city you relied on has been destroyed. 
Jael went out to meet Sisera and said to him, “Come in, sir; come into my tent. Don't be afraid.” So he went in, and she hid him behind a curtain.  
“Come home and have a meal with me,” he said. 
Abraham complained to Abimelech about a well which the servants of Abimelech had seized. 
Now, as for the dead rising to life: haven't you ever read what God has told you? He said,  
My days have passed; my plans have failed; : my hope is gone. 
(He thought that his own people would understand that God was going to use him to set them free, but they did not understand.) 
“Of all the nations on earth, you are the only one I have known and cared for. That is what makes your sins so terrible, and that is why I must punish you for them.” 
Before your parents, be ashamed of immoral behaviour. : Before a ruler or an important person, be ashamed of a lie. 
But a few of you will escape death and return from Egypt to Judah. Then the survivors will know whose words have come true, mine or theirs. 
He gave their lands to his people; : he gave them to Israel. 
He overcame the bitter difficulty, but not by his own strength or by military force. Instead, he used prayer to stop the punishment, appealing to the promises you solemnly made to our ancestors. 
For we conclude that a person is put right with God only through faith, and not by doing what the Law commands. 
Moses led them out of the camp to meet God, and they stood at the foot of the mountain. 
Someone lived there who was poor, but so clever that he could have saved the town. But no one thought about him.  
We have courage in God's presence, because we are sure that he hears us if we ask him for anything that is according to his will. 
Do what is right and fair; that pleases the LORD more than bringing him sacrifices. 
The Sovereign LORD is coming to rule with power, : bringing with him the people he has rescued. 
They laugh at other people and speak of evil things; : they are proud and make plans to oppress others. 
Amaziah, Uzziah, Jotham, 
He changed deserts into pools of water : and dry land into flowing springs. 
He also told the dream to his father, and his father scolded him: “What kind of a dream is that? Do you think that your mother, your brothers, and I are going to come and bow down to you?” 
Through the sea you made a path for your people : and led them through on dry ground. : Those who pursued them drowned in deep water, : as a stone sinks in the raging sea. 
These clans numbered 64,300 men. 
Listen! I stand at the door and knock; if anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in and eat with them, and they will eat with me.  
Babylon was punished because the blood of prophets and of God's people was found in the city; yes, the blood of all those who have been killed on earth.
Then I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, “Now God's salvation has come! Now God has shown his power as King! Now his Messiah has shown his authority! For the one who stood before our God and accused our brothers and sisters day and night has been thrown out of heaven. 
If you question this man, you yourself will be able to learn from him all the things that we are accusing him of.” 
and he alone is just.  
I will give them the desire to know that I am the LORD. Then they will be my people, and I will be their God, because they will return to me with all their heart. 
It is the covenant I made with their ancestors when I brought them out of Egypt, the land that was like a blazing furnace to them. I told them to obey me and to do everything that I had commanded. I told them that if they obeyed, they would be my people and I would be their God. 
That same day some Sadducees came to Jesus and claimed that people will not rise from death. 
Michael, Baaseiah, Malchijah, 
There, Elijah said to Elisha, “Tell me what you want me to do for you before I am taken away.” : “Let me receive the share of your power that will make me your successor,” Elisha answered. 
And when you are arrested and taken to court, do not worry beforehand about what you are going to say; when the time comes, say whatever is then given to you. For the words you speak will not be yours; they will come from the Holy Spirit.  
But as for me, I will pray to you, LORD; : answer me, God, at a time you choose. : Answer me because of your great love, : because you keep your promise to save. 
that you killed your people in the wilderness because you were not able to bring them into the land you promised to give them. 
“The northern boundary runs eastwards from the Mediterranean Sea to the city of Hethlon, to Hamath Pass, to the city of Zedad,  
Joiada was the father of Jonathan; and Jonathan was the father of Jaddua. 
Now here is this descendant of Abraham whom Satan has kept bound up for eighteen years; should she not be released on the Sabbath?”  
Even your smallest and humblest family : Will become as great as a powerful nation. : When the right time comes, : I will make this happen quickly. : I am the LORD!”
Show your greatness in the sky, O God, : and your glory over all the earth. 
“And what did he tell you?” Saul's uncle asked. 
for Zerubbabel, the governor of Judah: “I am about to shake heaven and earth 
If you hear something bad about a friend, ask him about it. It might be a lie. Don't believe everything you hear. 
For it is not by hearing the Law that people are put right with God, but by doing what the Law commands. 
If you try to be honest, you can be, and it will improve your character as handsome clothing improves your appearance. 
and for forty years he endured them in the desert. 
He said to himself, “I'll give Michal to David; I will use her to trap him, and he will be killed by the Philistines.” So for the second time Saul said to David, “You will be my son-in-law.” 
“Come,” they say, “let us destroy their nation, : so that Israel will be forgotten for ever.” 
Early in the morning Joshua got up and called the soldiers together. Then he and the leaders of Israel led them to Ai. 
When we reached Jerusalem, we rested for three days. 
You say, ‘We've been disgraced and made ashamed; we feel completely helpless because foreigners have taken over the holy places in the Temple.’ 
When a woman is about to give birth, she is sad because her hour of suffering has come; but when the baby is born, she forgets her suffering, because she is happy that a baby has been born into the world.  
Moses said, “That doesn't sound like a shout of victory or a cry of defeat; it's the sound of singing.” 
and prayed, ‘Let us praise the LORD, the God of Israel, who has today made one of my descendants succeed me as king, and has let me live to see it!’ ” 
The Jewish believers who had come from Joppa with Peter were amazed that God had poured out his gift of the Holy Spirit on the Gentiles also. 
I want you to remember the words that were spoken long ago by the holy prophets, and the command from the Lord and Saviour which was given you by your apostles. 
If your ruler becomes angry with you, do not hand in your resignation; serious wrongs may be pardoned if you keep calm. 
When it is time to break camp, the clan of Kohath shall come to carry the sacred objects only after Aaron and his sons have finished covering them and all their equipment. The clan of Kohath must not touch the sacred objects, or they will die. : These are the responsibilities of the clan of Kohath whenever the Tent is moved. 
All of you whom I sent into exile in Babylonia, listen to what I, the LORD, say.’ 
“ ‘God's curse on anyone who does not obey all of God's laws and teachings.’ : “And all the people will answer, ‘Amen!’
where I have five brothers. Let him go and warn them so that they, at least, will not come to this place of pain.’ 
Every one of us, then, will have to give an account of ourselves to God. 
The person guilty of manslaughter must remain in the city of refuge until the death of the High Priest, but after that he may return home. 
He did this to make what the prophet Isaiah had said come true, “He himself took our sickness and carried away our diseases.” 
Instead, you have followed the example of the kings of Israel and have led the people of Judah and Jerusalem into being unfaithful to God, just as Ahab and his successors led Israel into unfaithfulness. You even murdered your brothers, who were better men than you are. 
Sing to the LORD because of the great things he has done. : Let the whole world hear the news. 
So the soldiers went and broke the legs of the first man and then of the other man who had been crucified with Jesus. 
Moses answered, “Don't be afraid! Stand your ground, and you will see what the LORD will do to save you today; you will never see these Egyptians again. 
Your people will rebuild what has long been in ruins, building again on the old foundations. You will be known as the people who rebuilt the walls, who restored the ruined houses.” 
But according to the custom you have, I always set free a prisoner for you during the Passover. Do you want me to set free for you the King of the Jews?” 
After Ahithophel died, Abiathar and Jehoiada son of Benaiah became advisers. Joab was commander of the royal army.
Whoever does what my Father in heaven wants him to do is my brother, my sister, and my mother.”
“For one brief moment I left you; : with deep love I will take you back. 
He heard the groans of prisoners : and set free those who were condemned to die. 
Then I will knock his bow out of his left-hand and his arrows out of his right-hand. 
So they quickly lowered their sacks to the ground, and each man opened his sack. 
Now I have built a majestic temple for you, : a place for you to live in for ever.” 
‘I tell you,’ he replied, ‘that to all those who have something, even more will be given; but those who have nothing, even the little that they have will be taken away from them.  
My heart cries out for Moab! The people have fled to the town of Zoar, and to Eglath Shelishiyah. Some climb the road to Luhith, weeping as they go; some escape to Horonaim, grieving loudly. 
Rich people have no more in common with poor people than hyenas have with dogs. 
He gave them his own insight : to let them see the majesty of his creation. 
Punish them, O God, for their evil; : defeat those people in your anger! 
and Annas and Caiaphas were high priests. At that time the word of God came to John son of Zechariah in the desert. 
When you have picked your olives once, do not go back and get those that are left; they are for the foreigners, orphans, and widows. 
And God showed his love for us by sending his only Son into the world, so that we might have life through him. 
What follows is an account of how the land of Canaan west of the Jordan was divided among the people of Israel. Eleazar the priest, Joshua son of Nun, and the leaders of the families of the Israelite tribes divided it among the population. 
and Basemath, the daughter of Ishmael and sister of Nebaioth. 
He demanded, “Do you think that words can take the place of military skill and might? Who do you think will help you rebel against Assyria? 
The rich hunt down the poor just as lions hunt down wild donkeys in the open country. 
The Israelites had lived in Egypt for 430 years. 
There were Arab, Dumah, Eshan, 
Meanwhile, all the Israelites who were in Moab, Ammon, Edom, and other countries, heard that the king of Babylonia had allowed some Israelites to stay on in Judah and that he had made Gedaliah their governor. 
They brought bowls, clay pots, and bedding, and also food for David and his men: wheat, barley, meal, roasted grain, beans, peas, honey, cheese, cream, and some sheep. They knew that David and his men would be hungry, thirsty, and tired in the wilderness.
Shelomith and the members of his family were in charge of all the gifts dedicated to God by King David, the heads of families, leaders of clan groups, and army officers. 
Then they camped in the Valley of Zered. 
People passing by shook their heads and hurled insults at Jesus
My chosen people have turned against me; : like a lion in the forest : they have roared at me, : and so I hate them. 
The LORD will protect them and preserve their lives; : he will make them happy in the land; : he will not abandon them to the power of their enemies. 
Do not oppress widows, orphans, foreigners who live among you, or anyone else in need. And do not plan ways of harming one another.’ 
I stretched out the heavens : and laid the earth's foundations; : I say to Jerusalem, ‘You are my people! : I have given you my teaching, : and I protect you with my hand.’ ” 
He took her by the hand and said to her, “Talitha, koum,” which means, “Little girl, I tell you to get up!” 
and I will write on those tablets what I wrote on the tablets that you broke, and then you are to put them in the box.’ 
You disobeyed the LORD's command and did not completely destroy the Amalekites and all they had. That is why the LORD is doing this to you now. 
These are the descendants of Shem, living in their different tribes and countries, each group speaking its own language. 
We did this, not because we have no right to demand our support; we did it to be an example for you to follow. 
He later went to the land of the Hittites, built a city there, and named it Luz, which is still its name. 
I told all the people, especially the women, what the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, was saying to the people of Judah living in Egypt: “Both you and your wives have made solemn promises to the Queen of Heaven. You promised that you would offer sacrifices to her and pour out wine offerings to her, and you have kept your promises. Very well, then! Keep your promises! Carry out your vows! 
These men then went to Holofernes' tent and said to Bagoas, “Wake up the general! Those worthless Israelites have dared to come down from the mountain to attack us; they are just asking to be destroyed.” 
But Elisha sent word to the king of Israel, warning him not to go near that place, because the Syrians were waiting in ambush there. 
Knowing how to charm a snake is of no use if you let the snake bite first. 
Whatever you want to be done is as good as done. You know in advance all that you will do and what decisions you will make. 
People of God, walk round Zion and count the towers; 
Asa did what pleased the LORD, as his ancestor David had done. 
Remember your former leaders, who spoke God's message to you. Think back on how they lived and died, and imitate their faith. 
: Parosh, Pahath Moab, : Elam, Zattu, Bani, : Bunni, Azgad, Bebai, : Adonijah, Bigvai, Adin, : Ater, Hezekiah, Azzur, : Hodiah, Hashum, Bezai, : Hariph, Anathoth, Nebai, : Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir, : Meshezabel, Zadok, Jaddua, : Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah, : Hoshea, Hananiah, Hasshub, : Hallohesh, Pilha, Shobek, : Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah, : Ahiah, Hanan, Anan, : Malluch, Harim, and Baanah. 
But you have been our king from the beginning, O God; : you have saved us many times. 
They pour through the holes in my defences : and come crashing down on top of me; 
I promise that I will give you as many descendants as there are stars in the sky or grains of sand along the seashore. Your descendants will conquer their enemies. 
Foolish people are deceived by vain hopes, and dreams get them all excited. 
“The LORD remembers what their enemies have done; : he waits for the right time to punish them. 
He memorizes the sayings of famous men and is a skilled interpreter of parables. 
It was while Pekah was king that Tiglath Pileser, the emperor of Assyria, captured the cities of Ijon, Abel Beth Maacah, Janoah, Kedesh, and Hazor, and the territories of Gilead, Galilee, and Naphtali, and took the people to Assyria as prisoners. 
Some wandered in the trackless desert : and could not find their way to a city to live in. 
“Do not make for yourselves images of anything in heaven or on earth or in the water under the earth. 
They wait for death, but it never comes; : they prefer a grave to any treasure. 
Now Deborah, the wife of Lappidoth, was a prophet, and she was serving as a judge for the Israelites at that time. 
And this is how all Israel will be saved. As the scripture says: : “The Saviour will come from Zion : and remove all wickedness from the descendants of Jacob. 
David also told them to say to Amasa, “You are my relative. From now on I am putting you in charge of the army in place of Joab. May God strike me dead if I don't!” 
endurance brings God's approval, and his approval creates hope. 
Protect me from the plots of the wicked, : from evil mobs. 
Evildoers frustrate the plans of the humble, : but the LORD is their protection. 
and cinnamon, spice, incense, myrrh, and frankincense; wine and oil, flour and wheat, cattle and sheep, horses and carriages, slaves, and even human lives. 
I urge you, then, to make me completely happy by having the same thoughts, sharing the same love, and being one in soul and mind. 
One of those who heard us was Lydia from Thyatira, who was a dealer in purple cloth. She was a woman who worshipped God, and the Lord opened her mind to pay attention to what Paul was saying. 
Let us have confidence, then, and approach God's throne, where there is grace. There we will receive mercy and find grace to help us just when we need it.
In the past, when the tribe of Ephraim spoke, the other tribes of Israel were afraid; they looked up to Ephraim. But the people sinned by worshipping Baal, and for this they will die. 
He rebuilt the city, starting at the place where land was filled in on the east side of the hill, and Joab restored the rest of the city. 
His hands are well formed, : and he wears rings set with gems. : His body is like smooth ivory, : with sapphires set in it. 
‘From the time I brought my people out of Egypt until now, I did not choose any city in the land of Israel as the place to build a temple where I would be worshipped, and I did not choose anyone to lead my people Israel. 
After saying this, he showed them his hands and his side. The disciples were filled with joy at seeing the Lord. 
A group of priests built the next section, going north from the Horse Gate, each one building in front of his own house. 
Jesus answered, “I assure you that if you believe and do not doubt, you will be able to do what I have done to this fig tree. And not only this, but you will even be able to say to this hill, ‘Get up and throw yourself in the sea,’ and it will.  
and shoots arrows at me from every side — : arrows that pierce and wound me; : and even then he shows no pity. 
Our property is in the hands of strangers; : foreigners are living in our homes. 
LORD my God, I am your servant. Listen to my prayer and grant the requests I make to you. 
So Aaron struck the ground with his stick, and all the dust in Egypt was turned into gnats, which covered the people and the animals. 
Be careful, however, not to let your freedom of action make those who are weak in the faith fall into sin. 
They took their money and started grumbling against the employer.  
I will make a distinction between my people and your people. This miracle will take place tomorrow.’ ” 
The LORD kept every one of the promises that he had made to the people of Israel.
So then, as the one sin condemned all people, in the same way the one righteous act sets all people free and gives them life. 
They were all well impressed with him and marvelled at the eloquent words that he spoke. They said, “Isn't he the son of Joseph?” 
Bloodthirsty people hate anyone who's honest, but righteous people will protect the life of such a person. 
“No man who has been castrated or whose penis has been cut off may be included among the LORD's people. 
But their enemies, who were not allowed to see the light, deserved to be prisoners in darkness, because they had made prisoners of your people. And it was through your people that the eternal light of the Law was going to be given to the world. 
Then he shall change his clothes and take the ashes outside the camp to a ritually clean place. 
Our brothers and sisters, we know that God loves you and has chosen you to be his own. 
She said, “Long ago they used to say, ‘Go and get your answer in the city of Abel’ — and that's just what they did. 
He killed the firstborn sons : of all the families of Egypt. 
Remember Sodom and Gomorrah, and the nearby towns, whose people acted as those angels did and indulged in sexual immorality and perversion: they suffer the punishment of eternal fire as a plain warning to all. 
The leaders of the city of Zoan are fools! Egypt's wisest people give stupid advice! How dare they tell the king that they are successors to the ancient scholars and kings? 
Praise the LORD, because he is good; : sing praises to his name, because he is kind. 
My lover put his hand to the door, : and I was thrilled that he was near. 
“But now I will come,” says the LORD, : “because the needy are oppressed : and the persecuted groan in pain. : I will give them the security they long for.” 
Jeroboam never regained his power during Abijah's reign. Finally the LORD struck him down, and he died. 
I was the only one who saw the vision. Those who were with me did not see anything, but they were terrified and ran and hid. 
Sell your produce and take the money with you to the one place of worship. 
They stopped worshipping the LORD and served the Baals and the Astartes. 
Listen to me and answer me; : I am worn out by my worries. 
I will not punish you in my anger; : I will not destroy Israel again. : For I am God and not a human being. : I, the Holy One, am with you. : I will not come to you in anger. 
If one of them falls down, the other can help him up. But if someone is alone and falls, it's just too bad, because there is no one to help him. 
I tell you that many prophets and kings wanted to see what you see, but they could not, and to hear what you hear, but they did not.” 
If a man offers a goat, 
Do not restrain the Holy Spirit; 
But the one who will rescue them is strong — his name is the LORD Almighty. He himself will take up their cause and will bring peace to the earth, but trouble to the people of Babylonia.” 
But angry hands pulled it up by the roots : and threw it to the ground. : The east wind dried up its fruit. : Its branches were broken off; : they dried up and were burnt. 
when famine comes, he will keep you alive, : and in war protect you from death. 
Pagiel son of Ochran was in command of the tribe of Asher, 
They will completely destroy you and the people within your walls; not a single stone will they leave in its place, because you did not recognize the time when God came to save you!” 
“Today the LORD your God commands you to obey all his laws; so obey them faithfully with all your heart. 
So then, whether it came from me or from them, this is what we all preach, and this is what you believe. 
As long as the cloud stayed there, they did not move their camp. 
In an official assembly, don't get up and talk a lot of nonsense. And don't repeat yourself when you pray. 
“Their armies advance in violent conquest, and everyone is terrified as they approach. Their captives are as numerous as grains of sand. 
Keep your temper under control; it is foolish to harbour a grudge. 
Let us, then, who were the first to hope in Christ, praise God's glory! 
Then the earth opened up and swallowed Dathan : and buried Abiram and his family; 
And this small and temporary trouble we suffer will bring us a tremendous and eternal glory, much greater than the trouble. 
They were a bunch of worn-out men, : too weak to do any work for me. 
So they left the crowd; the disciples got into the boat in which Jesus was already sitting, and they took him with them. Other boats were there too. 
They take their sheep and cattle to offer as sacrifices to the LORD, but it does them no good. They cannot find him, for he has left them. 
He ruled in Hebron over Judah for seven and a half years, and in Jerusalem over all Israel and Judah for 33 years. 
“To Emperor Darius, may you rule in peace. 
Such teaching is like an open sore that eats away the flesh. Two men who have taught such things are Hymenaeus and Philetus. 
If I have ever cheated an orphan, : knowing I could win in court, 
When the LORD corrects you, my child, pay close attention and take it as a warning. 
So neither Johanan nor any of the army officers nor any of the people would obey the LORD's command to remain in the land of Judah. 
You are to open their eyes and turn them from the darkness to the light and from the power of Satan to God, so that through their faith in me they will have their sins forgiven and receive their place among God's chosen people.’ 
When an innocent person suddenly dies, : God laughs. 
The king of Babylonia looted the Temple, the temple treasury, and the wealth of the king and his officials, and took everything back to Babylon. 
Sarah said, “God has brought me joy and laughter. Everyone who hears about it will laugh with me.” 
Yes, the time is coming when watchmen will call out on the hills of Ephraim, ‘Let's go up to Zion, to the LORD our God.’ ” 
She is sensible, brave, and very beautiful; and her father is a good man. Tonight I'll discuss the marriage proposal with her father, and he will consent to give her to you as your bride. Then, when we return home from the town of Rages, we will celebrate the marriage. Raguel cannot refuse to let you marry her, and he cannot let any other man have her. If he did, then according to the Law of Moses he would deserve the death penalty. He knows that you are the only man who has the right to marry his daughter and receive the inheritance, so follow my advice. Raguel and I will discuss the matter tonight and arrange your engagement to Sarah. When we get back from the city of Rages, we will take her home with us.” 
“How could I ever be that powerful?” Hazael asked. “I'm a nobody!” : “The LORD has shown me that you will be king of Syria,” Elisha replied. 
Nobody outside the group dared to join them, even though the people spoke highly of them. 
So after they left Mount Sinai, the people of Israel no longer wore jewellery. 
For last night an angel of the God to whom I belong and whom I worship came to me 
they brought the donkey and the colt, threw their cloaks over them, and Jesus got on. 
So Nebuchadnezzar went up to the door of the blazing furnace and called out, “Shadrach! Meshach! Abednego! Servants of the Supreme God! Come out!” And they came out at once. 
Now it was the king's custom to ask for expert opinion on questions of law and order, so he called for his advisers, who would know what should be done. 
until a spirit stepped forward, approached the LORD, and said, ‘I will deceive him.’ 
Give me the desire to obey your laws : rather than to get rich. 
Look into her windows and listen at her doors. 
Tobit threw his arms round Tobias' neck and wept for joy. Then he exclaimed, “I can see you! My son, the light of my eyes! : “Praise God. Praise him for his greatness. : Praise all his holy angels. : May he continue to bless us. : Praise all his angels for ever. 
But if you continue to sin, you and your king will be destroyed.”
The LORD spoke to me again. 
after saying to them, “Take nothing with you for the journey: no stick, no beggar's bag, no food, no money, not even an extra shirt.  
He had James, the brother of John, put to death by the sword. 
The four kings took everything in Sodom and Gomorrah, including the food, and went away. 
Why are you hiding from us? : Don't forget our suffering and trouble! 
When the donkey saw the angel standing there holding a sword, it left the road and turned into the fields. Balaam beat the donkey and brought it back on to the road. 
Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah, 
The smell drove the demon away from them, and he fled to Egypt. Raphael chased after him and caught him there. At once he bound him hand and foot. 
The rest of the history of Solomon from beginning to end is recorded in The History of Nathan the Prophet, in The Prophecy of Ahijah of Shiloh, and in The Visions of Iddo the Prophet, which also deal with the reign of King Jeroboam of Israel. 
The LORD will save his people; : those who go to him for protection will be spared.
When the man saw that he was not winning the struggle, he struck Jacob on the hip, and it was thrown out of joint. 
And he also wanted to reveal his abundant glory, which was poured out on us who are the objects of his mercy, those of us whom he has prepared to receive his glory. 
Just as straw is set on fire by a spark, so powerful people will be destroyed by their own evil deeds, and no one will be able to stop the destruction.
I, who am an elder myself, appeal to the church elders among you. I am a witness of Christ's sufferings, and I will share in the glory that will be revealed. I appeal to you 
Listen, then, if you have ears! 
I have noticed something else in life that is useless. 
By force of arms they will conquer Assyria, the land of Nimrod, and they will save us from the Assyrians when they invade our territory. 
You have defended us in the past, so do not be angry with Jerusalem any longer. It is your city, your sacred hill. All the people in the neighbouring countries look down on Jerusalem and on your people because of our sins and the evil our ancestors did. 
when they hide in their caves, : or lie in wait in their dens? 
Jesus said to them, “How unbelieving you people are! How long must I stay with you? How long do I have to put up with you? Bring the boy to me!”  
In Bethlehem we heard about the Covenant Box, : and we found it in the fields of Jearim. 
Other nations will be covered by darkness, : But on you the light of the LORD will shine; : The brightness of his presence will be with you. 
Be merciful to me, LORD, : for I am in trouble; : my eyes are tired from so much crying; : I am completely worn out. 
Some Philistines and Arabs lived near where some Ethiopians had settled along the coast. The LORD incited them to go to war against Jehoram. 
Get ready to be taken prisoner, : you people of Egypt! : Memphis will be made a desert, : a ruin where no one lives. 
“This is why I tell you not to be worried about the food and drink you need in order to stay alive, or about clothes for your body. After all, isn't life worth more than food? And isn't the body worth more than clothes?  
Get wisdom and insight! Do not forget or ignore what I say. 
It is God who fills the clouds with water : and keeps them from bursting with the weight. 
You know that your father David and his men are hard fighters and that they are as fierce as a mother bear robbed of her cubs. Your father is an experienced soldier and does not stay with his men at night. 
For two years Paul lived in a place he rented for himself, and there he welcomed all who came to see him. 
“If a prophet is deceived into giving a false answer, it is because I, the LORD, have deceived him. I will remove him from the people of Israel. 
“Then go and find out,” Saul ordered. 
When day came, the sailors did not recognize the coast, but they noticed a bay with a beach and decided that, if possible, they would run the ship aground there. 
But the king made Joab obey the order. Joab went out, travelled through the whole country of Israel, and then returned to Jerusalem. 
in which I saw the Lord, as he said to me, ‘Hurry and leave Jerusalem quickly, because the people here will not accept your witness about me.’  
I will leave your cities in ruins : And your land desolate; : Then you will know that I am the LORD. 
At this the disciples were completely amazed and asked one another, “Who, then, can be saved?” 
How I love your Temple, LORD Almighty! 
He reported to King David the total number of men capable of military service: 1,100,000 in Israel, and 470,000 in Judah. 
as he is able, in proportion to the blessings that the LORD your God has given him. 
For as you eat, you each go ahead with your own meal, so that some are hungry while others get drunk. 
Speak to one another with the words of psalms, hymns, and sacred songs; sing hymns and psalms to the Lord with praise in your hearts. 
King Zedekiah answered, “Very well, then, do what you wish with him; I can't stop you.” 
Total number of exiles who returned — 42,360 : Their male and female servants — 7,337 : Male and female musicians — 245 : Horses — 736 : Mules — 245 : Camels — 435 : Donkeys — 6,720 
Gideon went back to his own home and lived there. 
I wish I had died in my mother's womb : or died the moment I was born. 
Then the Babylonians will come back, attack the city, capture it, and burn it down. 
So Joshua said to the people of Israel, “How long are you going to wait before you go in and take the land that the LORD, the God of your ancestors, has given you? 
“this is my blood, which seals God's covenant, my blood poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.  
You stained your reputation and that of your descendants. They suffered punishment for that foolishness of yours, which caused them so much grief. 
Bethuel, Hormah, Ziklag, 
When you die and are buried with your ancestors, I will make one of your sons king and will keep his kingdom strong. 
No indeed — the more wise people there are, the safer the world will be. A sensible king can be depended on to give his people this kind of security. 
Everything else that King Ahaziah did is recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel.
This is how he feeds the people : and provides an abundance of food. 
So there will be eight frames with their sixteen silver bases, two under each frame. 
Then the voice that I had heard speaking from heaven spoke to me again, saying, “Go and take the open scroll which is in the hand of the angel standing on the sea and on the land.” 
He made all their oppressors : feel sorry for them. 
Look at those who are proud; : pour out your anger and humble them. 
They hammered out sheets of gold and cut them into thin strips to be worked into the fine linen and into the blue, purple, and red wool. 
Reuben, Jacob's firstborn, had four sons: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi; they were the ancestors of the clans that bear their names. 
You carry us away like a flood; : we last no longer than a dream. : We are like weeds that sprout in the morning, 
Cabbon, Lahmam, Chitlish, 
You have never had any use for knowledge and have always refused to obey the LORD. 
The LORD your God himself will go before you and destroy the nations living there, so that you can occupy their land; and Joshua will be your leader, as the LORD has said. 
They tell lies under oath and expect no punishment, because the idols they put their trust in are lifeless. 
You placed the ocean over it like a robe, : and the water covered the mountains. 
He went on and saw two other brothers, James and John, the sons of Zebedee. They were in their boat with their father Zebedee, getting their nets ready. Jesus called them, 
Doom is sure to come for those who lose their courage; they have no faith, and so they will have no protection. 
Turn away from evil and do good, : and your descendants will always live in the land; 
Jacob said to Joseph, “I want you to go to Shechem, where your brothers are taking care of the flock.” : Joseph answered, “I am ready.” 
He also took a great quantity of bronze from Betah and Berothai, cities ruled by Hadadezer. 
Sir, you asked us, ‘Have you got a father or another brother?’ 
Then the LORD God placed the man in the Garden of Eden to cultivate it and guard it. 
They threatened to set fire to our country, : slaughter our young men, : dash our babies to the ground, : take our children away as captives, : and carry off all our young women. 
For anyone who wishes them peace becomes their partner in the evil things they do. 
He did not forgive those ancient giants who rebelled against him, confident of their own strength. 
He commanded them, “At the end of every seven years, when the year that debts are cancelled comes round, read this aloud at the Festival of Shelters. 
that you are making a fatal mistake. You asked me to pray to the LORD our God for you, and you promised that you would do everything that he commands. 
the land of Egypt is theirs. Let them settle in the region of Goshen, the best part of the land. And if there are any capable men among them, put them in charge of my own livestock.” 
I have relied on you all my life; : you have protected me since the day I was born. : I will always praise you. 
but a curse is on an idol made by human hands. A curse is also on the one who makes it, because he works on this perishable thing and then calls it a god. 
Their conduct shows that what the Law commands is written in their hearts. Their consciences also show that this is true, since their thoughts sometimes accuse them and sometimes defend them. 
If the bull kills a male or female slave, its owner shall pay the owner of the slave thirty pieces of silver, and the bull shall be stoned to death. 
And during the time I was with you I did not bother you for help when I needed money; the brothers and sisters who came from Macedonia brought me everything I needed. As in the past, so in the future: I will never be a burden to you! 
A good man is willing to guarantee his neighbour's debts. Only someone who has lost all sense of decency would refuse to do so. 
They have always known, if they are willing to testify, that from the very first I have lived as a member of the strictest party of our religion, the Pharisees. 
We had been there for several days when a prophet named Agabus arrived from Judea. 
Those who are alive can give thanks to the Lord, but can anyone in the world of the dead sing praise to the Most High? 
The gods of all other nations are only idols, : but the LORD created the heavens. 
The LORD said to Moses, 
There is nothing but sadness and sorrow for parents whose children do foolish things. 
Do not quarrel with someone rich; he may bribe people to turn against you. Gold has destroyed many people and corrupted kings. 
May the LORD be kind and gracious to you; 
When his family heard about it, they set out to take charge of him, because people were saying, “He's gone mad!” 
But someone will say, “One person has faith, another has actions.” My answer is, “Show me how anyone can have faith without actions. I will show you my faith by my actions.” 
Were you a slave when God called you? Well, never mind; but if you have a chance to become free, use it.  
By faith he lived as a foreigner in the country that God had promised him. He lived in tents, as did Isaac and Jacob, who received the same promise from God. 
Do not make a promise in my name if you do not intend to keep it; that brings disgrace on my name. I am the LORD your God. 
You should think of us as Christ's servants, who have been put in charge of God's secret truths. 
Remind your people of this, and give them a solemn warning in God's presence not to fight over words. It does no good, but only ruins the people who listen. 
Once I was looking out of the window of my house, 
I have sinned against you — only against you — : and done what you consider evil. : So you are right in judging me; : you are justified in condemning me. 
After Lot had left, the LORD said to Abram, “From where you are, look carefully in all directions. 
As it is, however, God put every different part in the body just as he wanted it to be. 
“What have you done to us?” Abimelech said. “One of my men might easily have slept with your wife, and you would have been responsible for our guilt.” 
The LORD had said that all of them would die in the wilderness, and except for Caleb son of Jephunneh and Joshua son of Nun they all did.
He will sink even the largest and most beautiful ships. 
Those who are prisoners will soon be set free; : they will live a long life : and have all the food they need. 
At once the man was able to hear, his speech impediment was removed, and he began to talk without any trouble. 
But you are the chosen race, the King's priests, the holy nation, God's own people, chosen to proclaim the wonderful acts of God, who called you out of darkness into his own marvellous light. 
He commanded the attendants to put a clean turban on Joshua's head. They did so, and then they put the new clothes on him while the angel of the LORD stood there. 
These are the descendants of Joel from generation to generation: Shemaiah, Gog, Shimei, Micah, Reaiah, Baal, and Beerah. The Assyrian emperor, Tiglath Pileser, captured Beerah, a leader of the tribe, and deported him. 
With it he made the bases for the entrance of the Tent of the LORD's presence, the bronze altar with its bronze grating, all the equipment for the altar, 
Ashhur, who founded the town of Tekoa, had two wives, Helah and Naarah. 
Now is the time to rescue your chosen people and to help me carry out my plan to destroy the enemies who are threatening us.” 
The time will come when people will not listen to sound doctrine, but will follow their own desires and will collect for themselves more and more teachers who will tell them what they are itching to hear. 
he went and got the bones of Saul and of his son Jonathan from the people of Jabesh in Gilead. (They had stolen them from the public square in Beth Shan, where the Philistines had hanged the bodies on the day they killed Saul on Mount Gilboa.) 
The enclosure was the same on the north side. 
When people are oppressed, they groan; : they cry for someone to save them. 
Judah: 6,800 well-equipped men, armed with shields and spears; 
When Mahalalel was 65, he had a son, Jared, 
I remember your tears, and I want to see you very much, so that I may be filled with joy. 
“Do not desire another man's house; do not desire his wife, his slaves, his cattle, his donkeys, or anything else that he owns.” 
But I keep trusting in you, my Sovereign LORD. : I seek your protection; : don't let me die! 
Those Christians who are poor must be glad when God lifts them up, 
he humbles priests and men of power. 
We love because God first loved us. 
‘The Son of Man must be handed over to sinners, be crucified, and three days later rise to life.’ ” 
The LORD said to Moses, “I will do just as you have asked, because I know you very well and I am pleased with you.” 
Fasten the other two ends of the cords to the two settings, and in this way attach them in front to the shoulder straps of the ephod. 
In the mountains of Judah he built cities, and in the forests he built forts and towers. 
You shall be holy and belong only to me, because I am the LORD and I am holy. I have set you apart from the other nations so that you would belong to me alone. 
Then the heads of the clans, the officials of the tribes, the commanders of the army, and the administrators of the royal property volunteered to give 
and you will say, “Why would I never learn? Why would I never let anyone correct me? 
The LORD sees to it that truth is kept safe by disproving the words of liars. 
As soon as they had entered the city, Elisha prayed, “Open their eyes, LORD, and let them see.” The LORD answered his prayer; he restored their sight, and they saw that they were inside Samaria. 
You have ignored all my advice and have not been willing to let me correct you. 
“The LORD bless you,” he said. “You are showing even greater family loyalty in what you are doing now than in what you did for your mother-in-law. You might have gone looking for a young man, either rich or poor, but you didn't. 
So Asa took silver and gold from the treasuries of the Temple and the palace and sent it to Damascus, to King Benhadad of Syria, with this message
So David convinced his men that they should not attack Saul. : Saul got up, left the cave, and started on his way. 
Meanwhile, Noah sent out a dove to see if the water had gone down, 
Don't build your house and establish a home until your fields are ready, and you are sure that you can earn a living. 
Now you can take part with me in the battle. It is the same battle you saw me fighting in the past, and as you hear, the one I am fighting still.
I will also hand over King Zedekiah of Judah and his officials to those who want to kill them. I will hand them over to the Babylonian army, which has stopped its attack against you. 
“Sovereign LORD, you made the earth and the sky by your great power and might; nothing is too difficult for you. 
God goes up to his throne. : There are shouts of joy and the blast of trumpets, : as the LORD goes up. 
Don't argue with others for no reason when they have never done you any harm. 
And now, Your Majesty, I beg you to listen to me and do what I ask. Please do not send me back to the prison in Jonathan's house. If you do, I will surely die there.” 
Treat me according to your constant love, : and teach me your commands. 
Your word is a lamp to guide me : and a light for my path. 
so he asked him where he was from. : “I am an Israelite,” Raphael answered, “one of your distant relatives, and I have come here to Nineveh to find work.” : “Do you know the way to Media?” Tobias asked. 
Don't abandon me to my enemies, : who attack me with lies and threats. 
Look at my hands and my feet, and see that it is I myself. Feel me, and you will know, for a ghost doesn't have flesh and bones, as you can see I have.” 
But there was an unrighteous man who abandoned Wisdom; he destroyed himself by killing his brother in a fit of anger. 
Then Queen Esther, the daughter of Abihail, along with Mordecai, also wrote a letter, putting her full authority behind the letter about Purim, which Mordecai had written earlier. 
What I mean, my friends, is this: there is not much time left, and from now on married men should live as though they were not married; 
Receive him, then, with joy, as a brother in the Lord. Show respect to all such people as he, 
How much longer will your anger last? : Have pity, O LORD, on your servants! 
The descendants of Gomer were the people of Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah. 
While their ancestors watched, God performed miracles : in the plain of Zoan in the land of Egypt. 
If the consecrated hair of a Nazirite is defiled because he or she is right beside someone who suddenly dies, they must wait seven days and then shave off their hair; and so they become ritually clean. 
But an ungrateful person's hope will melt away like frost, and drain away like water that is not being used.
The Babylonians broke in pieces the bronze columns and the carts that were in the Temple, together with the large bronze tank, and they took all the bronze to Babylon. 
When you were born, no one cut your umbilical cord or washed you or rubbed you with salt or wrapped you in cloth. 
A hypocrite hides hatred behind flattering words. 
And he paid Araunah 600 gold coins for the threshing place. 
Greetings also to Urbanus, our fellow-worker in Christ's service, and to Stachys, my dear friend. 
When you cross the River Jordan, the LORD will let you occupy the land and live there. He will keep you safe from all your enemies, and you will live in peace. 
“ ‘Put up the sword! I will judge you in the place where you were created, in the land where you were born. 
Maacah, Machir's wife, gave birth to two sons, whom they named Peresh and Sheresh. Peresh had two sons, Ulam and Rakem, 
Jesus looked round at his disciples and said to them, “How hard it will be for rich people to enter the Kingdom of God!” 
They forgot what he had done, : the miracles they had seen him perform. 
When Jacob saw Joseph's sons, he asked, “Who are these boys?” 
God will put his angels in charge of you : to protect you wherever you go. 
without taking my children and sacrificing them to idols? 
“What did they see in the palace?” : “They saw everything. There is nothing in the storerooms that I didn't show them.” 
“It would not be right to do that,” Moses answered, “because the Egyptians would be offended by our sacrificing the animals that we offer to the LORD our God. If we use these animals and offend the Egyptians by sacrificing them where they can see us, they will stone us to death. 
Every cooking pot in Jerusalem and in all Judah will be set apart for use in the worship of the LORD Almighty. The people who offer sacrifices will use them for boiling the meat of the sacrifices. When that time comes, there will no longer be any merchant in the Temple of the LORD Almighty.
So Jesus answered her, “You are a woman of great faith! What you want will be done for you.” And at that very moment her daughter was healed. 
“Why is his clothing so red, like that of someone who tramples grapes to make wine?” 
But the news about Jesus spread all the more widely, and crowds of people came to hear him and be healed from their diseases. 
But Balaam answered, “Even if Balak gave me all the silver and gold in his palace, I could not disobey the command of the LORD my God in even the smallest matter. 
When the LORD saw this, he spoke again to Shemaiah and said to him, “Because they admit their sin, I will not destroy them. But when Shishak attacks, they will barely survive. Jerusalem will not feel the full force of my anger, 
For from the inside, from a person's heart, come the evil ideas which lead him to do immoral things, to rob, kill,  
Afterwards, when David went home to greet his family, Michal came out to meet him. “The king of Israel made a big name for himself today!” she said. “He exposed himself like a fool in the sight of the servant women of his officials!” 
Jesus said also to the people, “When you see a cloud coming up in the west, at once you say that it is going to rain — and it does.  
Pilate said to them the third time, “But what crime has he committed? I cannot find anything he has done to deserve death! I will have him whipped and set him free.” 
Then the LORD said to Joshua, “Point your spear at Ai; I am giving it to you.” Joshua did as he was told, 
Then seven other cows came up which were thin and bony. They were the poorest cows I have ever seen anywhere in Egypt. 
They made life miserable for Isaac and Rebecca.
Then she told him the same story: “That Hebrew slave that you brought here came into my room and insulted me. 
Before all these things take place, however, you will be arrested and persecuted; you will be handed over to be tried in synagogues and be put in prison; you will be brought before kings and rulers for my sake.  
And so King Darius signed the order. 
“But you came to me and said, ‘Let's send men ahead of us to spy out the land, so that they can tell us the best route to take and what kind of cities are there.’ 
And if the ear were to say, “Because I am not an eye, I don't belong to the body,” that would not keep it from being a part of the body. 
Then he did not let anyone else go on with him except Peter and James and his brother John. 
Our brothers and sisters, we want you to know what God's grace has accomplished in the churches in Macedonia. 
Do not be afraid of them; remember what the LORD your God did to the king of Egypt and to all his people. 
The next day, which was a Sabbath, the chief priests and the Pharisees met with Pilate 
So Solomon finished building the Temple. 
David answered them, “I make a vow by the living LORD, who has saved me from all dangers! 
Humble yourself before you are punished with sickness. When you have sinned, show repentance. 
You and your descendants must all agree to circumcise every male among you. 
Speak first, O God, and I will answer. : Or let me speak, and you answer me. 
Even if a whole army surrounds me, : I will not be afraid; : even if enemies attack me, : I will still trust God. 
And the same is true of what God has done. He wanted to show his anger and to make his power known. But he was very patient in enduring those who were the objects of his anger, who were doomed to destruction. 
and Nabal finally answered, “David? Who is he? I've never heard of him! The country is full of runaway slaves nowadays! 
I did not eat any rich food or any meat, drink any wine, or comb my hair until the three weeks were past. 
to bring judgement on all, to condemn them all for the godless deeds they have performed and for all the terrible words that godless sinners have spoken against him!” 
The LORD said, “I will do to Judah what I have done to Israel: I will banish the people of Judah from my sight, and I will reject Jerusalem, the city I chose, and the Temple, the place I said was where I should be worshipped.” 
He was talking about Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot. For Judas, even though he was one of the twelve disciples, was going to betray him.
Reach down from above, : pull me out of the deep water, and rescue me; : save me from the power of foreigners, 
How much longer will all of you attack someone : who is no stronger than a broken-down fence? 
For when people die, they are set free from the power of sin. 
These women invited them to sacrificial feasts, where the god of Moab was worshipped. The Israelites ate the food and worshipped the god 
Work for the good of the cities where I have made you go as prisoners. Pray to me on their behalf, because if they are prosperous, you will be prosperous too. 
The official asked Philip, “Tell me, of whom is the prophet saying this? Of himself or of someone else?” 
“How terrible it will be for you, Chorazin! How terrible for you too, Bethsaida! If the miracles which were performed in you had been performed in Tyre and Sidon, the people there would long ago have sat down, put on sackcloth, and sprinkled ashes on themselves, to show that they had turned from their sins!  
the east wind will sweep them from their homes; 
His mother was a member of the tribe of Dan and his father was a native of Tyre. He knows how to make things out of gold, silver, bronze, iron, stone, and wood. He can work with blue, purple, and red cloth, and with linen. He can do all sorts of engraving and can follow any design suggested to him. Let him work with your skilled workers and with those who worked for your father, King David. 
When David had finished speaking, Saul said, “Is that really you, David my son?” And he started crying. 
Some time later Naomi heard that the LORD had blessed his people by giving them a good harvest; so she got ready to leave Moab with her daughters-in-law. 
The men of Jericho built the next section. : Zaccur son of Imri built the next section. 
Even storks know when it is time to return; doves, swallows, and thrushes know when it is time to migrate. But, my people, you do not know the laws by which I rule you. 
So then, I will throw you out of this land into a land that neither you nor your ancestors have ever known. And there you will serve other gods day and night, and I will show you no mercy.’ ” 
He placed the symbol of the goddess Asherah in the Temple, the place about which the LORD had said to David and his son Solomon: “Here in Jerusalem, in this Temple, is the place that I have chosen out of all the territory of the twelve tribes of Israel as the place where I am to be worshipped. 
Abijah and his army dealt the Israelites a crushing defeat — half a million of Israel's best soldiers were killed. 
Paul answered, “I am a Jew, born in Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of an important city. Please let me speak to the people.” 
“I appeal to all of you; : I call to everyone on earth. 
and Hazarshual, and in Beersheba and the villages around it. 
and laid the foundation for the high double wall and the fortifications of the Temple.  
because they had rebelled against the commands of Almighty God : and had rejected his instructions. 
“Now then, I, the Sovereign LORD, will tell you what is going to happen to that tree that grew until it reached the clouds. As it grew taller it grew proud; 
They will live there in safety. They will build houses and plant vineyards. I will punish all their neighbours who treated them with scorn, and Israel will be secure. Then they will know that I am the LORD their God.”
I have the courage to pray this prayer to you, my God, because you have revealed all this to me, your servant, and have told me that you will make my descendants kings. 
“Then a heroic king will appear. He will rule over a huge empire and do whatever he wants. 
Many people refuse to lend at all, not because they are stingy, but because they don't want to be cheated if they can avoid it. 
Without being told, Jesus knew that they were grumbling about this, so he said to them, “Does this make you want to give up?  
But the righteous live on for ever. The Lord will reward them; the Most High will protect them. 
and he ordered those who sold the pigeons, “Take them out of here! Stop making my Father's house a market place!”  
This is a message about Arabia. : You people of Dedan, whose caravans camp in the barren country of Arabia, 
by worshipping and serving other gods or the sun or the moon or the stars, contrary to the LORD's command. 
When I found someone in need, : too poor to buy clothes, 
When they ask why I did all these things, tell them, Jeremiah, that just as they turned away from me and served foreign gods in their own land, so they will serve strangers in a land that is not theirs.” 
the following instructions for the people of Israel. When anyone is unfaithful to the LORD and commits a wrong against someone, 
His brother Zerah had five sons: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol, and Darda. 
The following Levites rebuilt the next several sections of the wall: : Rehum son of Bani built the next section; : Hashabiah, ruler of half the Keilah District, built the next section on behalf of his district; 
Then Isaiah sent a message telling King Hezekiah that in answer to the king's prayer 
until I put your enemies as a footstool under your feet.’ 
We may make our plans, but God has the last word. 
If only my life could once again : be as it was when God watched over me. 
Rebuke publicly all those who commit sins, so that the rest may be afraid. 
You have never known him, but I know him. If I were to say that I do not know him, I would be a liar like you. But I do know him, and I obey his word.  
“Why didn't you eat the sin offering in a sacred place? It is very holy, and the LORD has given it to you in order to take away the sin of the community. 
Jesus answered, “But the scripture also says, ‘Do not put the Lord your God to the test.’ ” 
This vision was like the one I had seen when God came to destroy Jerusalem, and the one I saw by the River Chebar. Then I threw myself face downwards on the ground. 
when suddenly your threats were carried out! An invincible word of judgement sped from your royal throne in heaven, straight down to that doomed land. It came like a soldier charging to attack, 
If he says, ‘All right,’ I will be safe; but if he becomes angry, you will know that he is determined to harm me. 
We'll attack by night; we'll destroy the city's fortresses.” 
King Benhadad agreed to Asa's proposal and sent his commanding officers and their armies to attack the cities of Israel. They captured Ijon, Dan, Abel Beth Maacah, the area near Lake Galilee, and the whole territory of Naphtali. 
This happened three times, and finally the whole thing was drawn back up into heaven. 
But does this mean that what is good caused my death? By no means! It was sin that did it; by using what is good, sin brought death to me, in order that its true nature as sin might be revealed. And so, by means of the commandment sin is shown to be even more terribly sinful. 
I drew them to me with affection and love. : I picked them up and held them to my cheek; : I bent down to them and fed them. 
When the angels went away from them back into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, “Let's go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has told us.” 
As the LORD had promised through Elijah, the bowl did not run out of flour nor did the jar run out of oil. 
The Judeans looked round and saw that they were surrounded. They cried to the LORD for help, and the priests blew the trumpets. 
They began to march at the command of the LORD through Moses, 
All these things are good for those who are devout, : but they turn into evils for sinners. 
Fools should not live in luxury, and slaves should not rule over noblemen. 
I urge you, then — I who am a prisoner because I serve the Lord: live a life that measures up to the standard God set when he called you. 
The following priestly clans could find no record to prove their ancestry: Habaiah, Hakkoz, and Barzillai. 
The LORD made all the surrounding kingdoms afraid to go to war against King Jehoshaphat. 
The LORD, who made the earth, who formed it and set it in place, spoke to me. He whose name is the LORD said, 
On that day, from the Euphrates to the Egyptian border, the LORD will gather his people one by one, like someone separating the wheat from the chaff. 
They hide themselves in the villages, : waiting to murder innocent people. : They spy on their helpless victims; 
and gave him the strength to master everything on earth. 
and put them in the rings on each side of the altar. The altar was made of boards and was hollow. 
He breaks down doors of bronze : and smashes iron bars. 
But we, the living, will give thanks to him : now and for ever. : Praise the LORD!
The whole animal, including skin, meat, blood, and intestines, is to be burnt in the presence of the priest. 
Be joyfully grateful for the Lord's mercy, and never be ashamed to praise him. 
Beriah had two sons, Heber and Malchiel. (Malchiel founded the city of Birzaith.) 
Set me free from my distress; : then in the assembly of your people I will praise you : because of your goodness to me.
But remember, if they marry men of another tribe, their property will then belong to that tribe, and the total allotted to us will be reduced. 
Then King Solomon prayed, : “LORD, you have chosen to live in clouds and darkness. 
Then you will watch every step I take, : but you will not keep track of my sins. 
But Jesus said to them, “It was not for my sake that this voice spoke, but for yours.  
They never do wrong; : they walk in the LORD's ways. 
My dear friend, I pray that everything may go well with you and that you may be in good health — as I know you are well in spirit. 
But if you find that anyone here has your gods, he will be put to death. Here, with our men as witnesses, look for anything that belongs to you and take what is yours.” Jacob did not know that Rachel had stolen Laban's gods. 
As the dappled horses came out, they were impatient to go and inspect the earth. The angel said, “Go and inspect the earth!” — and they did. 
Samuel had two sons: Joel, the elder, and Abijah, the younger. 
The LORD has an accusation to bring against the people who live in this land. Listen, Israel, to what he says: “There is no faithfulness or love in the land, and the people do not acknowledge me as God. 
Jonadab's descendants have obeyed the command that their ancestor gave them, but you people have not obeyed me. 
The grapes were squeezed out in the winepress outside the city, and blood came out of the winepress in a flood 300 kilometres long and nearly two metres deep.
When Pilate heard these words, he took Jesus outside and sat down on the judge's seat in the place called “The Stone Pavement”. (In Hebrew the name is “Gabbatha”.) 
Holofernes commanded his men to take Judith to the table on which his silver was set out and to serve her with some of his own special food and wine. 
Jesus knew that the Father had given him complete power; he knew that he had come from God and was going to God. 
He took one of the king's family, made a treaty with him, and made him swear to be loyal. He took important men as hostages 
Fear the Lord and keep his Law; that is what Wisdom is all about.  
The next morning David wrote a letter to Joab and sent it by Uriah. 
Instead, they suppose that the gods who rule the world are fire or wind or storm or the circling stars or rushing water or the heavenly bodies. 
My life passes like the swiftest boat, : as fast as an eagle swooping down on a rabbit. 
Because the sheep had no shepherd, they were scattered, and wild animals killed and ate them. 
And if they disobey my command and use the words ‘the LORD's burden’, then tell them that 
for the people of Israel. You may eat any land animal 
Jesus answered, “One who dips his bread in the dish with me will betray me.  
So my sheep wandered over the high hills and the mountains. They were scattered over the face of the earth, and no one looked for them or tried to find them. 
Jesus said to them, “You are still no more intelligent than the others.  
Jesus said, “A day has twelve hours, hasn't it? So whoever walks in broad daylight does not stumble, for they see the light of this world.  
They presented their offerings in the following order: :  :  :  : 1st : Judah : Nahshon son of Amminadab : 2nd : Issachar : Nethanel son of Zuar : 3rd : Zebulun : Eliab son of Helon : 4th : Reuben : Elizur son of Shedeur : 5th : Simeon : Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai : 6th : Gad : Eliasaph son of Deuel : 7th : Ephraim : Elishama son of Ammihud : 8th : Manasseh : Gamaliel son of Pedahzur : 9th : Benjamin : Abidan son of Gideoni : 10th : Dan : Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai : 11th : Asher : Pagiel son of Ochran : 12th : Naphtali : Ahira son of Enan : The offerings each one brought were identical: one silver bowl weighing 1.5 kilogrammes and one silver basin weighing 800 grammes, by the official standard, both of them full of flour mixed with oil for the grain offering; one gold dish weighing 110 grammes, full of incense; one young bull, one ram, and a one-year-old lamb, for the burnt offering; one goat for the sin offering; and two bulls, five rams, five goats, and five one-year-old lambs for the fellowship offering. 
Why do you boast, great one, of your evil? : God's faithfulness is eternal. 
“But I, the LORD, will punish them for these things; I will take revenge on this nation. 
After the men carrying the Covenant Box had gone six steps, David made them stop while he offered the LORD a sacrifice of a bull and a fattened calf. 
and ordered the waters of the sea : to rise no further than he said. : I was there when he laid the earth's foundations. 
You must celebrate this day as a religious festival to remind you of what I, the LORD, have done. Celebrate it for all time to come.” 
You suffering people of Jerusalem, : you that stagger as though you were drunk, 
Everyone will starve to death — men, women, and children. Even before we attack, the streets will be littered with their corpses. 
Then Jehu plotted against King Joram, who was in Jezreel, where he had gone to recover from the wounds which he had received in the battle at Ramoth against King Hazael of Syria. So Jehu said to his fellow-officers, “If you are with me, make sure that no one slips out of Ramoth to go and warn the people in Jezreel.” 
in the same way that the ore of silver, copper, iron, lead, and tin is put in a refining furnace. My anger and rage will melt them just as fire melts ore. 
And everything else that Abijah did is recorded in The History of the Kings of Judah. 
The father at once cried out, “I do have faith, but not enough. Help me to have more!” 
The people ask, “Why should we fast if the LORD never notices? Why should we go without food if he pays no attention?” : The LORD says to them, “The truth is that at the same time as you fast, you pursue your own interests and oppress your workers. 
After the seven days had passed, the LORD spoke to me. 
Others of their fellow-Levites were in charge of the temple treasury and the storerooms for gifts dedicated to God. 
The LORD is great and is to be highly praised; : he is to be honoured more than all the gods. 
Do I say this because I don't love you? God knows I love you! 
Then she took the household idol, laid it on the bed, put a pillow made of goats'-hair at its head, and put a cover over it. 
Three days after they had left the city of Nineveh, they reached the plains round Bectileth near the mountains north of Cilicia, where they set up camp. 
Moses was angry and said to the LORD, “Do not accept any offerings these men bring. I have not wronged any of them; I have not even taken one of their donkeys.” 
But Abram asked, “Sovereign LORD, how can I know that it will be mine?” 
it is he who made us capable of serving the new covenant, which consists not of a written law but of the Spirit. The written law brings death, but the Spirit gives life. 
Hezekiah tells you that the LORD your God will save you from our power, but Hezekiah is deceiving you and will let you die of hunger and thirst. 
There he met a Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus, who had recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, for the Emperor Claudius had ordered all the Jews to leave Rome. Paul went to see them, 
and emptied them out of the pan for him to eat, but he wouldn't. He said, “Send everyone away” — and they all left. 
I will return to Jerusalem, my holy city, and live there. It will be known as the faithful city, and the hill of the LORD Almighty will be called the sacred hill. 
but on a woman it is a thing of beauty. Her long hair has been given her to serve as a covering. 
Righteous people keep their wealth, but the wicked lose theirs when hard times come. 
Then everyone will hear of it and be afraid, and no one else will dare to act in such a way. 
So the one who came down is the same one who went up, above and beyond the heavens, to fill the whole universe with his presence. 
You ask why he no longer accepts them. It is because he knows you have broken your promise to the wife you married when you were young. She was your partner, and you have broken your promise to her, although you promised before God that you would be faithful to her. 
The Spirit of the LORD speaks through me; : his message is on my lips. 
Crush all those enemy rulers who think they are the only people in the world who matter! 
Their armies were killed by the sword that comes out of the mouth of the one who was riding the horse; and all the birds ate all they could of their flesh.
They brought him one, and he asked, “Whose face and name are these?” : “The Emperor's,” they answered. 
Joahaz was 23 years old when he became king of Judah, and he ruled in Jerusalem for three months. His mother was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah from the city of Libnah. 
I crush them, so that they become like dust : which the wind blows away. : I trample on them like mud in the streets. 
Does a bird get caught in a trap if the trap has not been baited? : Does a trap spring unless something sets it off? 
There happened to be in Gilgal a worthless character named Sheba son of Bikri, of the tribe of Benjamin. He blew the trumpet and called out, “Down with David! We won't follow him! Men of Israel, let's go home!” 
You are my God; : teach me to do your will. : Be good to me, and guide me on a safe path. 
“Go back home and tell what God has done for you.” : The man went through the town, telling what Jesus had done for him. 
On his way back the king was met at the River Jordan by the men of Judah, who had come to Gilgal to escort him across the river. 
Then the one who sits on the throne said, “And now I make all things new!” He also said to me, “Write this, because these words are true and can be trusted.” 
Bring your youngest brother to me. Then I will know that you are not spies, but honest men; I will give your brother back to you, and you can stay here and trade.’ ” 
But Josiah was determined to fight. He refused to listen to what God was saying through King Neco, so he disguised himself and went into battle on the plain of Megiddo. 
Believers will be given the power to perform miracles: they will drive out demons in my name; they will speak in strange tongues;  
But you, O LORD, are king for ever, : and will rule to the end of time. 
I have riches and honour to give, : prosperity and success. 
Holofernes was resting on his bed under a mosquito net woven of purple and gold thread and decorated with emeralds and other precious stones. 
When I am surrounded by troubles, : you keep me safe. : You oppose my angry enemies : and save me by your power. 
He cried with such loud sobs that the Egyptians heard it, and the news was taken to the king's palace. 
Judah recognized them and said, “She is in the right. I have failed in my obligation to her — I should have given her to my son Shelah in marriage.” And Judah never had intercourse with her again. 
When anyone presents an offering of grain to the LORD, he must first grind it into flour. He must put olive oil and incense on it 
“Egypt will become a desert, : and Edom a ruined waste, : because they attacked the land of Judah : and killed its innocent people. 
Then Solomon dismissed Abiathar from serving as a priest of the LORD, and so he made what the LORD had said in Shiloh about the priest Eli and his descendants come true. 
Then they willingly took him into the boat, and immediately the boat reached land at the place they were heading for. 
Give yourself to the LORD; : trust in him, and he will help you; 
Then the chief priests and the elders met together in the palace of Caiaphas, the High Priest, 
But I will rescue my sheep and not let them be ill-treated any more. I will judge each of my sheep and separate the good from the bad. 
He gave to each one according to his ability: to one he gave 5,000 gold coins, to another he gave 2,000, and to another he gave 1,000. Then he left on his journey.  
Darius the Mede, who was the son of Xerxes, ruled over the kingdom of Babylonia. 
Three days later, when the men were still sore from their circumcision, two of Jacob's sons, Simeon and Levi, the brothers of Dinah, took their swords, went into the city without arousing suspicion, and killed all the men, 
Then Johanan said privately to him, “Let me go and kill Ishmael, and no one will know who did it. Why should he be allowed to murder you? That would cause all the Jews who have gathered round you to be scattered, and it would bring disaster on all the people who are left in Judah.” 
After that, Judas the Galilean appeared during the time of the census; he drew a crowd after him, but he also was killed, and all his followers were scattered. 
When I look beside me, : I see that there is no one to help me, : no one to protect me. : No one cares for me. 
Stop taking advantage of aliens, orphans, and widows. Stop killing innocent people in this land. Stop worshipping other gods, for that will destroy you. 
Offer with them all the other offerings required for the first day. 
I will send fire upon the land of Moab and burn down the fortresses of Kerioth. The people of Moab will die in the noise of battle while soldiers are shouting and trumpets are sounding. 
All his sins will be forgiven, and he will live, because he did what is right. 
Early in the morning Jesus was taken from Caiaphas' house to the governor's palace. The Jewish authorities did not go inside the palace, for they wanted to keep themselves ritually clean, in order to be able to eat the Passover meal. 
But the king answered, “I am afraid of our countrymen who have deserted to the Babylonians. I may be handed over to them and tortured.” 
Now then, you and your men should move by night and hide in the fields. 
He will even cause panic among them and will destroy those who escape and go into hiding. 
Egypt is like a splendid cow, : attacked by a stinging fly from the north. 
For whoever is not against us is for us.  
Moses said to Joshua, “Pick out some men to go and fight the Amalekites tomorrow. I will stand on top of the hill holding the stick that God told me to carry.” 
Sparrows were on the wall right above me, but I did not know it. Their warm droppings fell into my eyes, causing a white film to form on them. I went to one doctor after another, but the more they treated me with their medicines, the worse my eyes became, until finally I was completely blind. : For four years I could see nothing. My relatives were deeply concerned about my condition, and Ahikar supported me for two years before he went to the land of Elam. 
“Now I, the Sovereign LORD, am telling you Israelites that I will judge each of you by what you have done. Turn away from all the evil you are doing, and don't let your sin destroy you. 
The life of the poor is a constant struggle, but happy people always enjoy life. 
Now I know that the LORD gives victory to his chosen king; : he answers him from his holy heaven : and by his power gives him great victories. 
“Kings and their armies are running away!” : The women at home divided what was captured
“Their horses are faster than leopards, fiercer than hungry wolves. Their horsemen come riding from distant lands; their horses paw the ground. They come swooping down like eagles attacking their prey. 
“What about you?” he asked them. “Who do you say I am?” : Peter answered, “You are God's Messiah.” 
All those who obey his word are people whose love for God has really been made perfect. This is how we can be sure that we are in union with God
But there was nothing that they could say, because they saw the man who had been healed standing there with Peter and John. 
In another vision I saw four ox horns. 
If I don't get a chance to speak, : I will burst like a wineskin full of new wine. 
So Haman came in, and the king said to him, “There is someone I wish very much to honour. What should I do for this man?” : Haman thought to himself, “Now who could the king want to honour so much? Me, of course.” 
And then, whoever calls out to the Lord for help will be saved.’ 
This is what I will do,’ he told himself; ‘I will tear down my barns and build bigger ones, where I will store my corn and all my other goods.  
May the king be like rain on the fields, : like showers falling on the land. 
The result is that all who have not believed the truth, but have taken pleasure in sin, will be condemned. 
A righteous man's father has good reason to be happy. You can take pride in a wise son. 
I will save you from everything that defiles you. I will command the corn to be plentiful, so that you will not have any more famines. 
Next, the priest shall present them as a special gift to the LORD; they are a sacred offering for the priest, in addition to the breast and the leg of the ram which by law belong to the priest. After that, the Nazirite may drink wine. 
Everything leads to weariness — a weariness too great for words. Our eyes can never see enough to be satisfied; our ears can never hear enough. 
“Afterwards, their god told them to leave Mesopotamia and go to the land of Canaan, where they settled and became very rich in gold, silver, and livestock. 
Then the roar of his voice is heard, : the majestic sound of thunder, : and all the while the lightning flashes. 
But you have had the Holy Spirit poured out on you by Christ, and so all of you know the truth. 
Each of them also had sons. Gershon was the father of Libni and Shimei; 
On that day the LORD brought the Israelite tribes out of Egypt.
Nor does anyone pour new wine into used wineskins, because the new wine will burst the skins, the wine will pour out, and the skins will be ruined.  
I wait patiently for God to save me; : I depend on him alone. 
And because of the proof which this service of yours brings, many will give glory to God for your loyalty to the gospel of Christ, which you profess, and for your generosity in sharing with them and everyone else. 
Since there were temple officials and spiritual leaders among the descendants of both Eleazar and Ithamar, assignments were made by drawing lots. 
or the plagues that strike in the dark : or the evils that kill in daylight. 
“The ram you saw that had two horns represents the kingdoms of Media and Persia. 
Your arrows pierced the commander of his army : when it came like a storm to scatter us, : gloating like those who secretly oppress the poor. 
Then we will be ready to go with our fellow-Israelites into battle and lead the attack until we have settled them in the land that will be theirs. In the meantime, our dependants can live here in the fortified towns, safe from the people of this land. 
The man who cannot afford silver or gold : chooses wood that will not rot. : He finds a skilful craftsman : to make an image that won't fall down. 
Ahaz sent men to Tiglath Pileser, the emperor of Assyria, with this message: “I am your devoted servant. Come and rescue me from the kings of Syria and of Israel, who are attacking me.” 
And you will live a long time in the rich and fertile land that the LORD promised to give your ancestors and their descendants. 
So Moses assigned to the tribes of Gad and Reuben and to half the tribe of Manasseh all the territory of King Sihon of the Amorites and King Og of Bashan, including the towns and the country round them. 
Our enemies have set it on fire and cut it down; : look at them in anger and destroy them! 
On the seventh day of his banquet the king was drinking and feeling merry, so he called in the seven eunuchs who were his personal servants, Mehuman, Biztha, Harbona, Bigtha, Abagtha, Zethar, and Carkas. 
“The people of Israel have built palaces, but they have forgotten their own Maker. The people of Judah have built fortified cities. But I will send fire that will burn down their palaces and their cities.”
Now take your pay and go home. I want to give this man who was hired last as much as I have given you.  
If you want people to like you, forgive them when they wrong you. Remembering wrongs can break up a friendship. 
Give thanks to the God of heaven; : his love is eternal.
“This month is to be the first month of the year for you. 
Evil desire will destroy you and make you a joke to your enemies. 
Yes, even on my servants, both men and women, : I will pour out my Spirit in those days, : and they will proclaim my message. 
Then he waited another seven days and sent out the dove once more; this time it did not come back. 
“Why do you call me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ and yet don't do what I tell you?  
Whenever the Israelites sowed any seed, the Midianites would come with the Amalekites and the desert tribes and attack them. 
“But I know everything about you, what you do and where you go. I know how you rage against me. 
He rescued me from my powerful enemies : and from all those who hate me — : they were too strong for me. 
There is no one like the LORD our God. : He lives in the heights above, 
and put them through the rings on each side of the box. 
Love must be completely sincere. Hate what is evil, hold on to what is good. 
For Adam was created first, and then Eve. 
From the day that your ancestors came out of Egypt until this very day, I have kept on sending my servants, the prophets, to you. 
So they spread a false report among the Israelites about the land they had explored. They said, “That land doesn't even produce enough to feed the people who live there. Everyone we saw was very tall, 
You may make your plans, but God directs your actions. 
For David said about him: : ‘I saw the Lord before me at all times; : he is near me, and I will not be troubled. 
It is his practice to get up early and pray aloud to the Lord his Creator, asking the Most High to forgive his sins. 
Uzziah died and was buried in the royal burial ground in David's City, and his son Jotham succeeded him as king. 
The Sovereign LORD says to his people: : “I will signal to the nations, : and they will bring your children home. 
At his command the waters above the sky roar; : he brings clouds from the ends of the earth. : He makes lightning flash in the rain : and sends the wind from his storeroom. 
But the men who went out to bury her found nothing except her skull, and the bones of her hands and feet. 
So then, you must make a clear distinction between animals and birds that are ritually clean and those that are not. Do not eat unclean animals or birds. I have declared them unclean, and eating them would make you unclean. 
Your harvests will be so plentiful that they will last for a year, and even then you will have to throw away what is left of the old harvest to make room for the new. 
You eat my people up. You strip off their skin, break their bones, and chop them up like meat for the pot. 
My child, learn to value Wisdom while you are young, and you will still be able to find her when you grow old. 
and Zadok and Nathan anointed him as king at the spring of Gihon. Then they went into the city, shouting for joy, and the people are now in an uproar. That's the noise you just heard. 
And so when you sent for me, I came without any objection. I ask you, then, why did you send for me?” 
I will bless her, and I will give you a son by her. I will bless her, and she will become the mother of nations, and there will be kings among her descendants.” 
About the tribe of Levi he said: : “You, LORD, reveal your will by the Urim and Thummim : Through your faithful servants, the Levites; : You put them to the test at Massah : And proved them true at the waters of Meribah. 
the masons, and the stonecutters, buy the timber and the stones used in the repairs, and pay all other necessary expenses. 
Their knowledge gives them a position of importance, and powerful people hold them in high regard. 
The Lord of all is not afraid of anyone, no matter how great they are. He himself made everyone, great and common alike, and he provides for all equally, 
Again there was a division among the people because of these words. 
‘Please let me go,’ he said, ‘because our family is celebrating the sacrificial feast in town, and my brother ordered me to be there. So then, if you are my friend, let me go and see my relatives.’ That is why he isn't in his place at your table.” 
Even David's two wives, Ahinoam and Abigail, had been taken away. 
When Mordecai learnt of all that had been done, he tore his clothes in anguish. Then he dressed in sackcloth, covered his head with ashes, and walked through the city, wailing loudly and bitterly, 
The finest topaz and the purest gold : Cannot compare with the value of wisdom. 
One of the elders asked me, “Who are these people dressed in white robes, and where do they come from?” 
shall abstain from wine and beer. They shall not drink any kind of drink made from grapes or eat any grapes or raisins. 
Samson answered, “If they tie me up with seven new bowstrings that are not dried out, I'll be as weak as anybody else.” 
Sovereign LORD, I put my hope in you; : I have trusted in you since I was young. 
One day the LORD spoke to Jonah son of Amittai. 
Then let me go back home and die near my parents' grave. Here is my son Chimham, who will serve you; take him with you, Your Majesty, and do for him as you think best.” 
from Jerusalem, from the territory of Idumea, from the territory on the east side of the Jordan, and from the region round the cities of Tyre and Sidon. All these people came to Jesus because they had heard of the things he was doing. 
but David was not able to go there to worship God, because he was afraid of the sword of the LORD's angel.
I am overcome with terror; : my dignity is gone like a puff of wind, : and my prosperity like a cloud. 
Countries will fight each other; kingdoms will attack one another. There will be earthquakes everywhere, and there will be famines. These things are like the first pains of childbirth. 
It will not be like the covenant that I made with their ancestors : on the day I took them by the hand and led them out of Egypt. : They were not faithful to the covenant I made with them, : and so I paid no attention to them. 
There is something else I saw, a good example of how wisdom is regarded in this world. 
What I mean is that God made a covenant with Abraham and promised to keep it. The Law, which was given 430 years later, cannot break that covenant and cancel God's promise. 
As they leap on the tops of the mountains, : they rattle like chariots; : they crackle like dry grass on fire. : They are lined up like a great army ready for battle. 
It is better to be poor but honest than to be a lying fool. 
Happy are those whose lives are faultless, : who live according to the law of the LORD. 
My greetings to Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and all the other Christian brothers and sisters with them. 
Solomon answered, “You always showed great love for my father David, and now you have let me succeed him as king. 
“Do not eat any meat with blood still in it. Do not practise any kind of magic. 
He said to Aaron, “Take a young bull and a ram without any defects and offer them to the LORD, the bull for a sin offering and the ram for a burnt offering. 
I will make southern Egypt desolate and set fire to the city of Zoan in the north. I will punish the capital city of Thebes. 
They will be symbols of the LORD Almighty's presence in Egypt. When the people there are oppressed and call out to the LORD for help, he will send someone to rescue them. 
Do not have intercourse with another man's wife; that would make you ritually unclean. 
People of Israel, no god is like your God, : riding in splendour across the sky, : riding through the clouds to come to your aid. 
Then the LORD said to Elijah, the prophet from Tishbe, 
If you do worship other gods, the LORD's anger will come against you like fire and will destroy you completely, because the LORD your God, who is present with you, tolerates no rivals. 
People of Israel, your prophets are as useless as foxes living among the ruins of a city. 
One day a visitor arrived at the rich man's home. The rich man didn't want to kill one of his own animals to prepare a meal for him; instead, he took the poor man's lamb and cooked a meal for his guest.” 
Aaron obeyed, took his firepan and ran into the middle of the assembled people. When he saw that the plague had already begun, he put the incense on the coals and performed the ritual of purification for the people. 
and Ira from the town of Jair was also one of David's priests.
King Rehoboam consulted the older men who had served as his father Solomon's advisers. “What answer do you advise me to give these people?” he asked. 
Her dainty sandal caught his eye; : her beauty captured his heart. : Then the sword slashed through his neck. 
Unfaithful people! Don't you know that to be the world's friend means to be God's enemy? People who want to be the world's friends make themselves God's enemies. 
James, Peter, and John, who seemed to be the leaders, recognized that God had given me this special task; so they shook hands with Barnabas and me, as a sign that we were all partners. We agreed that Barnabas and I would work among the Gentiles and they among the Jews. 
Instead, he will send you a prophet like me from among your own people, and you are to obey him. 
the curtains for the enclosure, its posts and bases; the curtain for the entrance of the enclosure; 
They are my own people, : and I created them to bring me glory.” 
You know very well all the wrong that you did to my father David. The LORD will punish you for it. 
Because the midwives feared God, he was good to them and gave them families of their own. And the Israelites continued to increase and become strong. 
The descendants of Pallu were Eliab 
I tell you, then, that any man who divorces his wife for any cause other than her unfaithfulness, commits adultery if he marries some other woman.” 
They lived in the city of Ziklag, in Meconah and its villages, 
Mered also married a woman from the tribe of Judah, and they had three sons: Jered, who founded the town of Gedor; Heber, founder of the town of Soco; and Jekuthiel, founder of the town of Zanoah. 
it is not to remain there overnight. It must be buried the same day, because a dead body hanging on a post brings God's curse on the land. Bury the body, so that you will not defile the land that the LORD your God is giving you.
You may, however, take for yourselves the women, the children, the livestock, and everything else in the city. You may use everything that belongs to your enemies. The LORD has given it to you. 
He saw in the distance a fig tree covered with leaves, so he went to see if he could find any figs on it. But when he came to it, he found only leaves, because it was not the right time for figs. 
He bought that part of the field from the descendants of Hamor father of Shechem for a hundred pieces of silver. 
The woman answered, “Surely you know what King Saul has done, how he forced the fortune tellers and mediums to leave Israel. Why, then, are you trying to trap me and get me killed?” 
Pray also for us, brothers and sisters. 
Some Arabs had led a raid and killed all King Jehoram's sons except Ahaziah, the youngest. So now the people of Jerusalem made Ahaziah king as his father's successor. 
She is a breath of God's power — a pure and radiant stream of glory from the Almighty. Nothing that is defiled can ever steal its way into Wisdom. 
You gave them this rich and fertile land, as you had promised their ancestors. 
When Esther's young women and eunuchs told her what Mordecai was doing, she was deeply disturbed. She sent Mordecai some clothes to put on instead of the sackcloth, but he would not accept them. 
“You have heard them insult me, O LORD; you know all their plots. 
So Moses went down and called the leaders of the people together and told them everything that the LORD had commanded him. 
so obey him and keep all his laws that I am giving you today.” 
The next day the whole community complained against Moses and Aaron and said, “You have killed some of the LORD's people.” 
If you had really believed Moses, you would have believed me, because he wrote about me.  
Shimei had four sons: Jahath, Zina, Jeush, and Beriah
The helpless call to him, and he answers; : he saves them from all their troubles. 
To the LORD the nations are nothing, : no more than a drop of water; : the distant islands are as light as dust. 
Cover their faces with shame, O LORD, : and make them acknowledge your power. 
There he shall draw lots, using two stones, one marked “for the LORD” and the other “for Azazel”.  
then let my enemies pursue me and catch me, : let them cut me down and kill me : and leave me lifeless on the ground! 
I said to them, “You are sacred to the LORD, the God of your ancestors, and so are all the silver and gold utensils brought to him as freewill offerings. 
This is how the judgement works: the light has come into the world, but people love the darkness rather than the light, because their deeds are evil.  
Surely you have heard that God in his grace has given me this work to do for your good. 
Also Rehum, the governor, and Shimshai, the secretary of the province, wrote the following letter to Artaxerxes about Jerusalem
“Let us be allies, as our fathers were. This silver and gold is a present for you. Now break your alliance with King Baasha of Israel so that he will have to pull his troops out of my territory.” 
Why were a thousand defeated by one, : and 10,000 by only two? : The LORD, their God, had abandoned them; : their mighty God had given them up. 
He burnt the bones of the pagan priests on the altars where they had worshipped. By doing all this, he made Judah and Jerusalem ritually clean again. 
The LORD gave the Israelites victory over Lachish on the second day of the battle. Just as they had done at Libnah, they spared no one, but killed every person in the city. 
But in place of them I claim all the Levites as mine! I am the LORD! I also claim the livestock of the Levites in place of all the firstborn of the livestock.” 
Shout for joy, you heavens! : Shout, deep places of the earth! : Shout for joy, mountains, and every tree of the forest! : The LORD has shown his greatness : by saving his people Israel. 
All the fighting men of the lands of Gomer and Beth Togarmah in the north are with him, and so are men from many other nations. 
The very day that they killed my children as sacrifices to idols, they came to my Temple and profaned it! 
What my enemies say can never be trusted; : they only want to destroy. : Their words are flattering and smooth, : but full of deadly deceit. 
What do I care about the incense they bring me from Sheba, or the spices from a distant land? I will not accept their offerings or be pleased with their sacrifices. 
The LORD is great and is to be highly praised; : his greatness is beyond understanding. 
Then Jonathan said to him, “Since tomorrow is the New Moon Festival, your absence will be noticed if you aren't at the meal. 
the son of Melea, the son of Menna, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David, 
He said, “Mortal man, eat this scroll that I give you; fill your stomach with it.” I ate it, and it tasted as sweet as honey. 
If you are not willing, we will not go, because the man told us we would not be admitted to his presence unless our brother was with us.” 
Seven priests, each carrying a trumpet, are to go in front of the Covenant Box. On the seventh day you and your soldiers are to march round the city seven times while the priests blow the trumpets. 
But he spoke to the sky above : and commanded its doors to open; 
The LORD commanded Moses to say to the Israelites: “You have seen how I, the LORD, have spoken to you from heaven. 
There are many rooms in my Father's house, and I am going to prepare a place for you. I would not tell you this if it were not so.  
“Almighty LORD, God of Israel, enthroned above the winged creatures, you alone are God, ruling all the kingdoms of the world. You created the earth and the sky. 
Now I am sure that you will be king of Israel and that the kingdom will continue under your rule. 
No, it is rather by means of God's power that I drive out demons, and this proves that the Kingdom of God has already come to you. 
God helped him to defeat the Philistines, the Arabs living at Gurbaal, and the Meunites. 
Jerusalem, go up on a high mountain : and proclaim the good news! : Call out with a loud voice, Zion; : announce the good news! : Speak out and do not be afraid. : Tell the towns of Judah : that their God is coming! 
Wait until the last moment of your life, when you are breathing your last, and then divide your property among your heirs. 
All who heard him were amazed and asked, “Isn't he the one who in Jerusalem was killing those who worship that man Jesus? And didn't he come here for the very purpose of arresting those people and taking them back to the chief priests?” 
Answer me if you can. Prepare your arguments. 
Now, however, we are free from the Law, because we died to that which once held us prisoners. No longer do we serve in the old way of a written law, but in the new way of the Spirit. 
I will prove to you, then, that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins.” So he said to the paralysed man, “Get up, pick up your bed, and go home!” 
Don't take advantage of the poor just because you can; don't take advantage of those who stand helpless in court. 
Then the Israelites turned round, and the Benjaminites were thrown into a panic because they realized that they were about to be destroyed. 
because he risked his life and nearly died for the sake of the work of Christ, in order to give me the help that you yourselves could not give.
The LORD told Moses 
It is necessary to stop their talk, because they are upsetting whole families by teaching what they should not, and all for the shameful purpose of making money. 
“Suppose someone has a son who is stubborn and rebellious, a son who will not obey his parents, even though they punish him. 
God came to Balaam and asked, “Who are these men that are staying with you?” 
In this way the LORD rescued King Hezekiah and the people of Jerusalem from the power of Sennacherib, the emperor of Assyria, and also from their other enemies. He let the people live in peace with all the neighbouring countries. 
But if I tell him, ‘The arrows are on the other side of you,’ then leave, because the LORD is sending you away. 
We could say much more and never finish, : but it all means this: the Lord is everything. 
Our great desire is that each of you keep up your eagerness to the end, so that the things you hope for will come true. 
So do not be afraid; you are worth much more than many sparrows! 
Everything else that Shallum did, including an account of his conspiracy, is recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel. 
Next, Joshua and his army went on from Lachish to Eglon, surrounded it and attacked it. 
With all humility and many tears I did my work as the Lord's servant during the hard times that came to me because of the plots of some Jews. 
King Hiram of Tyre sent a trade mission to David; he provided him with cedar logs and with stonemasons and carpenters to build a palace. 
Meanwhile Jeroboam had sent some of his troops to ambush the Judean army from the rear, while the rest faced them from the front. 
Everyone who came brought him a gift — articles of silver and gold, robes, weapons, spices, horses, and mules. This continued year after year. 
He was faithful to the LORD and never disobeyed him, but carefully kept all the commands that the LORD had given Moses. 
He died and was buried in Samaria, and his son Jehoahaz succeeded him as king. 
So Sheshbazzar came and laid its foundation; construction has continued from then until the present, but the Temple is still not finished.’ 
On the following day we left and arrived in Caesarea. There we stayed at the house of Philip the evangelist, one of the seven men who had been chosen as helpers in Jerusalem. 
That is what your fathers did when I sent them from Kadesh Barnea to explore the land. 
or perhaps of some worthless animal. He paints it all over with red, covering up every flaw in the work. 
Bukki, Uzzi, 
Three times a year Solomon offered burnt offerings and fellowship offerings on the altar he had built to the LORD. He also burnt incense to the LORD. And so he finished building the Temple. 
where he found the army officers in a conference. He said, “Sir, I have a message for you.” : Jehu asked, “Which one of us are you speaking to?” : “To you, sir,” he replied. 
Then Jephthah brought all the men of Gilead together, fought the men of Ephraim and defeated them. (The Ephraimites had said, “You Gileadites in Ephraim and Manasseh, you are deserters from Ephraim!”) 
The LORD will not let good people go hungry, but he will keep the wicked from getting what they want. 
But the LORD made the king stubborn and, just as the LORD had said, the king would not listen to Moses and Aaron. 
but he has forbidden me to do it, because I am a soldier and have shed too much blood. 
Euodia and Syntyche, please, I beg you, try to agree as sisters in the Lord. 
It is possible to use cleverness for wicked purposes, but some people act like fools because they don't know any better. 
Everyone's hands will be weak, and their knees will shake. 
You are expecting Egypt to help you, but that would be like using a reed as a walking stick — it would break and jab your hand. That is what the king of Egypt is like when anyone relies on him.” 
“Every firstborn son and firstborn male domestic animal belongs to me, 
Jesus answered, “If only you knew what God gives and who it is that is asking you for a drink, you would ask him, and he would give you life-giving water.” 
Don't be afraid of anything you are about to suffer. Listen! The Devil will put you to the test by having some of you thrown into prison, and your troubles will last ten days. Be faithful to me, even if it means death, and I will give you life as your prize of victory. 
Trust in the LORD for ever; : he will always protect us. 
Then, Israel, you will know that I am among you, : and that I, the LORD, am your God : and there is no other. : My people will never be despised again. 
He looks at his food and sighs, like a castrated man hugging a young woman. 
Correct your people, LORD; : but do not be too hard on us : or punish us when you are angry; : that would be the end of us. 
“I create the blacksmith, : who builds a fire and forges weapons. : I also create the soldier, : who uses the weapons to kill. 
The LORD says, “I will teach you the way you should go; : I will instruct you and advise you. 
My neighbours thought I was mad. “Haven't you learnt anything?” they asked. “You have already been in danger once for burying the dead, and you would have been killed if you had not run away. But here you are doing the same thing all over again.” 
Turn your anger on the nations that do not worship you, : on the people who do not pray to you. 
Will people gain anything if they win the whole world but lose their life? Of course not! There is nothing they can give to regain their life.  
I am also against those prophets who speak their own words and claim they came from me. 
Kedemoth, and Mephaath. 
I am the LORD your God, and you must keep yourselves holy, because I am holy. 
The LORD says to Edom, : “I will make you weak; : everyone will despise you. 
By your power you saved your people, : the descendants of Jacob and of Joseph. 
Once more Jesus went away and prayed, “My Father, if this cup of suffering cannot be taken away unless I drink it, your will be done.”  
animal or bird, 
It is better to have wise people reprimand you than to have stupid people sing your praises. 
Even if I have done wrong, : how does that hurt you? 
He refused and said to her, “Look, my master does not have to concern himself with anything in the house, because I am here. He has put me in charge of everything he has. 
Remember what happened long ago; : acknowledge that I alone am God : and that there is no one else like me. 
Follow him back here when he comes to sit on my throne. He will succeed me as king, because he is the one I have chosen to be the ruler of Israel and Judah.” 
Well then, my child, you are in that person's power, but this is how to get out of it: hurry to him, and beg him to release you. 
When Jesus heard what had happened, he found the man and asked him, “Do you believe in the Son of Man?” 
My brothers and sisters, remember the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord. Take them as examples of patient endurance under suffering. 
What's the use of an idol? It is only something that a human being has made, and it tells you nothing but lies. What good does it do for its maker to trust it — a god that can't even talk! 
I delight in following your commands : more than in having great wealth. 
I will come down and speak with you there, and I will take some of the spirit I have given you and give it to them. Then they can help you to bear the responsibility for these people, and you will not have to bear it alone. 
“It is my opinion,” James went on, “that we should not trouble the Gentiles who are turning to God. 
That is why God has sent the hand to write these words. 
When the Israelites became stronger, they forced the Canaanites to work for them, but still they did not drive them all out. 
But now I tell you: anyone who looks at a woman and wants to possess her is guilty of committing adultery with her in his heart.  
They had claimed they could drive away all the fears and illnesses of sick minds, but now they themselves were sick with silly, groundless fears. 
“The time is coming,” says the LORD, “when people will no longer swear by me as the living God who brought the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt. 
Christ himself carried our sins in his body to the cross, so that we might die to sin and live for righteousness. It is by his wounds that you have been healed. 
but you have no tomb, and your corpse is thrown out to rot. It is covered by the bodies of soldiers killed in battle, thrown with them into a rocky pit, and trampled down. 
He replied, “Do you think you and the king are the only ones the emperor sent me to say all these things to? No, I am also talking to the people who are sitting on the wall, who will have to eat their excrement and drink their urine, just as you will.” 
David made this a rule, and it has been followed in Israel ever since. 
The man answered, “In that case I will give up my right to buy the field, because it would mean that my own children would not inherit it. You buy it; I would rather not.” 
Moses was 120 years old when he died; he was as strong as ever, and his eyesight was still good. 
Don't you know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, who lives in you and who was given to you by God? You do not belong to yourselves but to God; 
and gives sight to the blind. : He lifts those who have fallen; : he loves his righteous people. 
Like his father Asa before him, he did what was right in the sight of the LORD; 
David's words won the complete loyalty of all the men of Judah, and they sent him word to return with all his officials. 
And so I will always remind you of these matters, even though you already know them and are firmly grounded in the truth you have received. 
who at that time were Uzziah son of Micah, of the tribe of Simeon, Chabris son of Gothoniel, and Charmis son of Melchiel. 
His eyes are as beautiful as doves by a flowing brook, : doves washed in milk and standing by the stream. 
They are like bushes in the desert, : which grow in the dry wilderness, : on salty ground where nothing else grows. : Nothing good ever happens to them. 
They replied, “The hill country is not big enough for us, but the Canaanites in the plains have iron chariots, both those who live in Beth Shan and its surrounding towns and those who live in the Valley of Jezreel.” 
But there is no one to step between us — : no one to judge both God and me. 
Manasseh led the people of Judah to commit even greater sins than those committed by the nations whom the LORD had driven out of the land as his people advanced. 
You that live in Lachish, hitch the horses to the chariots. You imitated the sins of Israel and so caused Jerusalem to sin. 
You will be shattered like a clay pot, so badly broken that there is no piece big enough to pick up hot coals with, or to scoop water from a cistern.” 
on Israel's highest mountain. : It will grow branches and bear seed : and become a magnificent cedar. : Birds of every kind will live there : and find shelter in its shade. 
Adonizedek, the king of Jerusalem, heard that Joshua had captured and totally destroyed Ai and had killed its king, just as he had done to Jericho and its king. He also heard that the people of Gibeon had made peace with the Israelites and were living among them. 
John's disciples came, carried away his body, and buried it; then they went and told Jesus. 
They went off and found everything just as Jesus had told them, and they prepared the Passover meal. 
Those who obey God in everything : and always do what is right, : whose words are true and sincere, 
Then David was afraid of the LORD and said, “How can I take the Covenant Box with me now?” 
He is making it with all of us who stand here in his presence today and also with our descendants who are not yet born. 
Manoah did not know that it was the LORD's angel, so he said to him, “Please do not go yet. Let us cook a young goat for you.” : But the angel said, “If I do stay, I will not eat your food. But if you want to prepare it, burn it as an offering to the LORD.” 
The foundations were made of large stones prepared at the quarry, some of them 3.5 metres long and others four metres long. 
“O LORD, the God of our ancestors, in your goodness forgive those who are worshipping you with all their heart, even though they are not ritually clean.” 
These things can be understood as a figure: the two women represent two covenants. The one whose children are born in slavery is Hagar, and she represents the covenant made at Mount Sinai. 
Lot, Abram's nephew, was living in Sodom, so they took him and all his possessions. 
A loyal friend is like a safe shelter; find one, and you have found a treasure. 
Have you any idea how big the world is? : Answer me if you know. 
One day Jonathan said to the young man who carried his weapons, “Let's go across to the Philistine camp.” But Jonathan did not tell his father Saul, 
“If there is a fight and one person hits another with a stone or with their fist, but does not kill them, they are not to be punished. 
Honour the LORD your God, worship only him, and make your promises in his name alone. 
King David commanded all the officials of Israel to assemble in Jerusalem. So all the officials of the tribes, the officials who administered the work of the kingdom, the leaders of the clans, the supervisors of the property and livestock that belonged to the king and his sons — indeed all the palace officials, leading soldiers, and important men — gathered in Jerusalem. 
Jesus answered them, “Haven't you read what David did when he and his men were hungry?  
Listen to what I, the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, have to say. I will silence the sounds of joy and gladness and the happy sounds of wedding feasts. The people here will live to see this happen. 
Listen now, and warn the descendants of Jacob,” says the Sovereign LORD Almighty. 
When John the Baptist heard in prison about the things that Christ was doing, he sent some of his disciples to him. 
But you are angry with your chosen king; : you have deserted and rejected him. 
When the crowd saw that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, they got into those boats and went to Capernaum, looking for him. 
The king was very angry, and he sent the servant to jail to be punished until he should pay back the whole amount.” 
When the city wall of Jerusalem was dedicated, the Levites were brought in from wherever they were living, so that they could join in celebrating the dedication with songs of thanksgiving and with the music of cymbals and harps. 
Moses is the one who said to the people of Israel, ‘God will send you a prophet, just as he sent me, and he will be one of your own people.’ 
One of them ran up at once, took a sponge, soaked it in cheap wine, put it on the end of a stick, and tried to make him drink it. 
and you repented and humbled yourself before me, tearing your clothes and weeping, when you heard how I threatened to punish Jerusalem and its people. I have heard your prayer, 
King Solomon had a bronze altar made, which was nine metres square and 4.5 metres high. 
Their bodies will grow young and strong again; 
The Egyptians pursued them and went after them into the sea with all their horses, chariots, and drivers. 
Zechariah son of Meshelemiah was also a guard at the entrance to the Tent of the LORD's presence. 
that had in it all the colours of the rainbow. This was the dazzling light that shows the presence of the LORD. : When I saw this, I fell face downwards on the ground. Then I heard a voice
Wise people walk the road that leads upwards to life, not the road that leads downwards to death. 
“Every third year give the tithe — a tenth of your crops — to the Levites, the foreigners, the orphans, and the widows, so that in every community they will have all they need to eat. When you have done this, 
The LORD commanded Moses 
The number of men who ate was 4,000, not counting the women and children. 
It would be better for him if a large millstone were tied round his neck and he were thrown into the sea than for him to cause one of these little ones to sin.  
But the Lord stayed with me and gave me strength, so that I was able to proclaim the full message for all the Gentiles to hear; and I was rescued from being sentenced to death. 
But Onan knew that the children would not belong to him, so whenever he had intercourse with his brother's widow, he let the semen spill on the ground, so that there would be no children for his brother. 
I will stop the people of Moab from making burnt offerings at their places of worship and from offering sacrifices to their gods. I, the LORD, have spoken. 
But you have followed my teaching, my conduct, and my purpose in life; you have observed my faith, my patience, my love, my endurance, 
(At the same time, the king of Edom regained control of the city of Elath, and drove out the Judeans who lived there. The Edomites settled in Elath, and still live there.) 
The moon will be as bright as the sun, and the sun will be seven times brighter than usual, like the light of seven days in one. This will all happen when the LORD bandages and heals the wounds he has given his people. 
Relatives of Zadok, an able young fighter: 22 leading men; 
‘You are gods,’ I said; : ‘all of you are children of the Most High.’ 
I have made my servant David king : by anointing him with holy oil. 
When they ask you why you are groaning, tell them it is because of the news that is coming. When it comes, their hearts will be filled with fear, their hands will hang limp, their courage will fail, and their knees will tremble. The time has come; it is here.” The Sovereign LORD has spoken. 
Listen to us, O Shepherd of Israel; : hear us, leader of your flock. : Seated on your throne above the winged creatures, 
“So then,” says the LORD, “once and for all I will make the nations know my power and my might; they will know that I am the LORD.”
But if there is anything wrong with the animals, if they are crippled or blind or have any other serious defect, you must not sacrifice them to the LORD your God. 
King Hezekiah understood this to mean that there would be peace and security during his lifetime, so he replied, “The message you have given me from the LORD is good.”
As the men were leaving, some people brought to Jesus a man who could not talk because he had a demon. 
It was on the road at midday, Your Majesty, that I saw a light much brighter than the sun, coming from the sky and shining round me and the men travelling with me. 
Herod was very pleased when he saw Jesus, because he had heard about him and had been wanting to see him for a long time. He was hoping to see Jesus perform some miracle. 
Complain no more about your injuries; : there is no cure for you. : I punished you like this : because your sins are many : and your wickedness is great. 
Be sure, then, to keep in your hearts the message you heard from the beginning. If you keep that message, then you will always live in union with the Son and the Father. 
the lampstands and the lamps of fine gold that were to burn in front of the Most Holy Place, according to plan; 
Put your hope in the LORD and obey his commands; : he will honour you by giving you the land, : and you will see the wicked driven out. 
The city that once was faithful is behaving like a whore! At one time it was filled with righteous people, but now only murderers remain. 
And the commander of the LORD's army told him, “Take your sandals off; you are standing on holy ground.” And Joshua did as he was told.
While Ahab went to eat, Elijah climbed to the top of Mount Carmel, where he bowed down to the ground, with his head between his knees. 
Israel, tell us how your enemies have persecuted you : ever since you were young. 
Pay attention to him and obey him. Do not rebel against him, for I have sent him, and he will not pardon such rebellion. 
“Whatever happens,” Ahimaaz said again, “I want to go.” : “Then go,” Joab said. So Ahimaaz ran off down the road through the Jordan Valley, and soon he passed the slave. 
Let us go down and mix up their language so that they will not understand one another.” 
If any animal that may be eaten dies, anyone who touches it will be unclean until evening. 
the cups, lamp snuffers, bowls, dishes for incense, and the pans used for carrying live coals; and the hinges for the doors of the Most Holy Place and of the outer doors of the Temple. All these furnishings were made of gold. 
That is what shall be offered with each bull, ram, sheep, or goat. 
and prayed, 
So David and his men went to Keilah and attacked the Philistines; they killed many of them and took their livestock. And that was how David saved the town. 
As the priests were leaving the Temple, it was suddenly filled with a cloud 
It was Friday, and the Sabbath was about to begin. 
Believe in the light, then, while you have it, so that you will be the people of the light.” : After Jesus said this, he went off and hid himself from them. 
Then they sang a hymn and went out to the Mount of Olives. 
You have a saying, ‘Four more months and then the harvest.’ But I tell you, take a good look at the fields; the crops are now ripe and ready to be harvested!  
who take your babies : and smash them against a rock.
“We are insulted and mocked by all our enemies. 
The servant did not have enough to pay his debt, so the king ordered him to be sold as a slave, with his wife and his children and all that he had, in order to pay the debt.  
The LORD said to Moses, “Go up the Abarim Mountains and look out over the land that I am giving to the Israelites. 
Then Abraham buried his wife Sarah in that cave in the land of Canaan. 
Respected people do not tell lies, and fools have nothing worthwhile to say. 
You have kept me from being captured, : and I have never fallen. 
His back is made of rows of shields, : fastened together and hard as stone. 
I will throw you and all those fish into the desert. Your body will fall on the ground and be left unburied. I will give it to the birds and animals for food. 
He made an altar out of acacia wood, for burning incense. It was square, 45 centimetres long and 45 centimetres wide, and it was ninety centimetres high. Its projections at the four corners formed one piece with it. 
The king talked with them all, and Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah impressed him more than any of the others. So they became members of the king's court. 
King Asa of Judah and King Baasha of Israel were constantly at war with each other as long as they were in power. 
Some people from the city of Tyre were living in Jerusalem, and they brought fish and all kinds of goods into the city to sell to our people on the Sabbath. 
Also in front of the throne there was what looked like a sea of glass, clear as crystal. : Surrounding the throne on each of its sides, were four living creatures covered with eyes in front and behind. 
You are merciful and forgiving, although we have rebelled against you. 
Life is much more important than food, and the body much more important than clothes.  
I want to know what he would say : and how he would answer me. 
the Covenant Box, its poles, its lid, and the curtain to screen it off; 
Do not kill them, O God, or my people may forget. : Scatter them by your strength and defeat them, : O Lord, our protector. 
Against the outside walls, on the sides and the back of the Temple, a three-storied annexe was built, each storey 2.2 metres high. 
That is why the LORD is going to teach you letter by letter, line by line, lesson by lesson. Then you will stumble with every step you take. You will be wounded, trapped, and taken prisoner. 
Then God's people will shine like the sun in their Father's Kingdom. Listen, then, if you have ears! 
Some Pharisees asked Jesus when the Kingdom of God would come. His answer was, “The Kingdom of God does not come in such a way as to be seen.  
Occupy the land and settle in it, because I am giving it to you. 
It has not listened to the LORD or accepted his discipline. It has not put its trust in the LORD or asked for his help. 
Ask one clan chief from each tribe to help you.” 
Let us hold on firmly to the hope we profess, because we can trust God to keep his promise. 
The time for the Passover Festival was near, and many people went up from the country to Jerusalem to perform the ritual of purification before the festival. 
yet because of all the trouble this widow is giving me, I will see to it that she gets her rights. If I don't, she will keep on coming and finally wear me out!’ ” 
Instead, in everything we do we show that we are God's servants by patiently enduring troubles, hardships, and difficulties. 
Jesus is the one of whom the scripture says: : ‘The stone that you the builders despised : turned out to be the most important of all.’ 
He is not afraid of receiving bad news; : his faith is strong, and he trusts in the LORD. 
Those who are happy to witness the downfall of devout people are going to fall into a trap and die a painful death. 
On the eighth day gather for worship and do no work. 
They laughed at him, so he put them all out, took the child's father and mother and his three disciples, and went into the room where the child was lying. 
Whoever believes that Jesus is the Messiah is a child of God; and whoever loves a father loves his child also. 
In the case of a will it is necessary to prove that the person who made it has died, 
Jesus said to them, “The kings of the pagans have power over their people, and the rulers claim the title ‘Friends of the People’.  
He answered, “LORD God Almighty, I have always served you — you alone. But the people of Israel have broken their covenant with you, torn down your altars, and killed all your prophets. I am the only one left — and they are trying to kill me!” 
David became even more famous when he returned from killing 18,000 Edomites in the Valley of Salt. 
I looked again, and this time I saw a scroll flying through the air. 
Why should God reward you if you love only the people who love you? Even the tax collectors do that!  
The shepherds of Gerar quarrelled with Isaac's shepherds and said, “This water belongs to us.” So Isaac named the well “Quarrel”. 
“Go in peace,” the king said. So Absalom went to Hebron. 
There in Jerusalem, David married more wives and had more sons and daughters. 
he must then go out to the altar for burnt offerings and purify it. He must take some of the bull's blood and some of the goat's blood and put it all over the projections at the corners of the altar. 
Tell them that if they love their lives, they must not carry any load on the Sabbath; they must not carry anything in through the gates of Jerusalem 
Zadok, Ahimaaz. 
Moses prayed, 
The men of Gibeon sent word to Joshua at the camp in Gilgal: “Do not abandon us, sir! Come at once and help us! Save us! All the Amorite kings in the hill country have joined forces and have attacked us!” 
You will have all the proof you want that Christ speaks through me. When he deals with you, he is not weak; instead, he shows his power among you. 
As for me, however, I will boast only about the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ; for by means of his cross the world is dead to me, and I am dead to the world. 
Achish called David and said to him, “I swear by the living GOD of Israel that you have been loyal to me; and I would be pleased to let you go with me and fight in this battle. I have not found any fault in you from the day you came over to me. But the other kings don't approve of you. 
Everyone will praise such a person and speak of him as fortunate. 
Take a sprig of hyssop, dip it in the bowl containing the animal's blood, and wipe the blood on the doorposts and the beam above the door of your house. Not one of you is to leave the house until morning. 
For having done such a cruel thing, he must pay back four times as much as he took.” 
Upon receiving this order, the jailer threw them into the inner cell and fastened their feet between heavy blocks of wood. 
In despair and far from home : I call to you! : Take me to a safe refuge, 
Since you are God's people, it is not right that any matters of sexual immorality or indecency or greed should even be mentioned among you. 
Reward those who have put their faith in you, and vindicate your prophets. 
“Whoever hits his father or his mother is to be put to death. 
Now tell the people, ‘Purify yourselves for tomorrow; you will have meat to eat. The LORD has heard you whining and saying that you wished you had some meat and that you were better off in Egypt. Now the LORD will give you meat, and you will have to eat it. 
members of the tribe of Benjamin, to which Saul belonged. They could shoot arrows and sling stones either right-handed or left-handed. 
The “month” is named after the moon, : marvellous to watch as it grows fuller each night, : a signal light for the heavenly armies, : shining out in the dome of the sky. 
Look on our Lord's patience as the opportunity he is giving you to be saved, just as our dear brother Paul wrote to you, using the wisdom that God gave him. 
“And now, I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise, honour, and glorify the King of Heaven. Everything he does is right and just, and he can humble anyone who acts proudly.”
Look, a messenger is coming over the mountains with good news! He is on his way to announce the victory! People of Judah, celebrate your festivals and give God what you solemnly promised him. The wicked will never invade your land again. They have been totally destroyed!
At the port of Eziongeber they built ocean-going ships. 
She bore him a son, Genubath, who was brought up by the queen in the palace, where he lived with the king's sons. 
Praise the LORD! : It is good to sing praise to our God; : it is pleasant and right to praise him. 
Where are they now, the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim? Did anyone save Samaria? 
Even prisoners enjoy peace, : free from shouts and harsh commands. 
You are my king and my God; : you give victory to your people, 
Gold and silver provide security, but good advice is better. 
even at noon they grope in darkness. 
The Jews joined in the accusation and said that all this was true. 
with two matching projections, so that the frames could be joined together. All the frames had these projections. 
Everything else that Zechariah did is recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel. 
Now the message that we have heard from his Son and announce is this: God is light, and there is no darkness at all in him. 
Then David comforted his wife Bathsheba. He had intercourse with her, and she bore a son, whom David named Solomon. The LORD loved the boy 
“You can be sure that on Judgement Day everyone will have to give account of every useless word he has ever spoken.  
The rich have to use their money to save their lives, but no one threatens the poor. 
“No, sir,” they answered. “We have come as your slaves, to buy food. 
May our God and Father himself and our Lord Jesus prepare the way for us to come to you! 
Yet we who have this spiritual treasure are like common clay pots, in order to show that the supreme power belongs to God, not to us. 
The LORD said to Moses, 
The LORD will send boils on you, as he did on the Egyptians. He will make your bodies break out with sores. You will be covered with scabs, and you will itch, but there will be no cure. 
It is enough that this person has been punished in this way by most of you. 
The water ran down round the altar and filled the trench. 
People of mixed race will live in Ashdod. The LORD says, “I will humble all these proud Philistines. 
or his uncle or his cousin or another of his close relatives may buy him back; or if he himself earns enough, he may buy his own freedom. 
The first to return to their property in the cities included Israelite citizens, priests, Levites, and temple workers. 
Remember this! Whoever does not receive the Kingdom of God like a child will never enter it.” 
But when King Nebuchadnezzar invaded the country, we decided to come to Jerusalem to get away from the Babylonian and Syrian armies. That is why we are living in Jerusalem.” 
So the LORD God sent him out of the Garden of Eden and made him cultivate the soil from which he had been formed. 
When they reached the city, they marched to the Temple, to the music of harps and trumpets. 
and do not be an enemy when you should be a friend. A bad reputation brings you the disgrace that lying sinners deserve. 
I repeat: no one should think that I am a fool. But if you do, at least accept me as a fool, so that I will have a little to boast of. 
and you will drive out your enemies, as he promised. 
Sin found its chance, and by means of the commandment it deceived me and killed me. 
“Very well,” she answered. “I will speak to the king for you.” 
the LORD Almighty had said: “If you obey my laws and perform the duties I have assigned to you, then you will continue to be in charge of my Temple and its courts, and I will hear your prayers, just as I hear the prayers of the angels who are in my presence. 
with Ahio walking in front. 
How much longer will those prophets mislead my people with the lies they have invented? 
Heal the sick, bring the dead back to life, heal those who suffer from dreaded skin diseases, and drive out demons. You have received without paying, so give without being paid.  
No, it is not Beelzebul, but God's Spirit, who gives me the power to drive out demons, which proves that the Kingdom of God has already come upon you. 
May Almighty God cause the man to have pity on you, so that he will give Benjamin and your other brother back to you. As for me, if I must lose my children, I must lose them.” 
His faith did not leave him, and he did not doubt God's promise; his faith filled him with power, and he gave praise to God. 
Peter spoke up and said to Jesus, “Teacher, how good it is that we are here! We will make three tents, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.” 
instead of worshipping the immortal God, they worship images made to look like mortal human beings or birds or animals or reptiles. 
King Joash joined in a conspiracy against Zechariah, and on the king's orders the people stoned Zechariah in the temple courtyard. 
Some Pharisees came to Jesus and started to argue with him. They wanted to trap him, so they asked him to perform a miracle to show that God approved of him. 
They will bring back all your fellow-Israelites from the nations as a gift to me. They will bring them to my sacred hill in Jerusalem on horses, mules, and camels, and in chariots and wagons, just as Israelites bring grain offerings to the Temple in ritually clean containers. 
The people of Israel were divided: some of them wanted to make Tibni son of Ginath king, and the others were in favour of Omri. 
and asked Abraham's servant, “Who is that man walking towards us in the field?” : “He is my master,” the servant answered. So she took her scarf and covered her face. 
Well, what then? I tell you that even if he will not get up and give you the bread because you are his friend, yet he will get up and give you everything you need because you are not ashamed to keep on asking. 
A wise person will not speak until the right moment, but a bragging fool doesn't know when that time is. 
But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel that is different from the one we preached to you, may he be condemned to hell! 
“The LORD will bring you into the land of the Canaanites, which he solemnly promised to you and your ancestors. When he gives it to you, 
But the firstborn of cows, sheep, and goats are not to be bought back; they belong completely to me and are to be sacrificed. Throw their blood against the altar and burn their fat as a food offering, a smell pleasing to me. 
You created me, and you keep me safe; : give me understanding, so that I may learn your laws. 
: Eliashib : Shallum, Telem, and Uri
You will be dragged to the nearest break in the wall and thrown out.” 
Promise me, women of Jerusalem; : swear by the swift deer and the gazelles : that you will not interrupt our love. 
Their sorrow was doubled; they groaned as they looked back on what had happened. 
“But you rebelled against the command of the LORD your God, and you would not enter the land. 
The helpless victims lie crushed; : brute strength has defeated them. 
Then you may stay here in our country with us; you may live anywhere you wish, trade freely, and own property.” 
Obstacles as great as mountains will disappear before you. You will rebuild the Temple, and as you put the last stone in place, the people will shout, ‘Beautiful, beautiful!’ ” 
At daybreak Jesus left the town and went off to a lonely place. The people started looking for him, and when they found him, they tried to keep him from leaving. 
“The governor of Egypt spoke harshly to us and accused us of spying against his country. 
Moses said to the officials, “Each of you is to kill every man in your tribe who has become a worshipper of Baal of Peor.” 
You will not have to fight this battle. Just take up your positions and wait; you will see the LORD give you victory. People of Judah and Jerusalem, do not hesitate or be afraid. Go out to battle, and the LORD will be with you!” 
The Jews did not find me arguing with anyone in the Temple, nor did they find me stirring up the people, either in the synagogues or anywhere else in the city. 
Then all the people of Israel will hear what happened; they will be afraid, and no one will ever again do such an evil thing. 
no one gathers it up : or carries it away in bundles. 
I didn't create them or bring them to birth! Why should you ask me to act like a nurse and carry them in my arms like babies all the way to the land you promised to their ancestors? 
“ ‘God's curse on anyone who accepts money to murder an innocent person.’ : “And all the people will answer, ‘Amen!’ 
They went up and made camp west of Kiriath Jearim in Judah. That is why the place is still called Camp of Dan. 
Their belongings are pounced upon and taken as loot. 
Let them all praise the name of the LORD! : His name is greater than all others; : his glory is above earth and heaven. 
But when trouble came, they turned to the LORD, the God of Israel. They searched for him and found him. 
He placed the rest of his troops under the command of his brother Abishai, who put them in position facing the Ammonites. 
Sarah lived to be 127 years old. 
I will give to you and to your descendants this land in which you are now a foreigner. The whole land of Canaan will belong to your descendants for ever, and I will be their God.” 
It isn't right for someone who is selfish to be rich. What use is money to a stingy person? 
Now listen, Jerusalem, to what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying. By not obeying my laws or keeping my commands, you have caused more trouble than the nations around you. You have followed the customs of other nations. 
The LORD will abandon Israel because Jeroboam sinned and led the people of Israel into sin.” 
But since it is an argument about words and names and your own law, you yourselves must settle it. I will not be the judge of such things!” 
Then the Lord thundered from heaven with a mighty roar 
What shall we say, then? Should we continue to live in sin so that God's grace will increase? 
Be glad, earth and sky! : Tell the nations that the LORD is king. 
Get out of the trap like a bird or a deer escaping from a hunter. 
“During the breeding season I had a dream, and I saw that the male goats that were mating were striped, spotted, and speckled. 
Let my cry for help reach you, LORD! : Give me understanding, as you have promised. 
and said, “What is this proverb people keep repeating in the land of Israel? : ‘The parents ate the sour grapes, : But the children got the sour taste.’ 
After those on board had gone a long time without food, Paul stood before them and said, “Men, you should have listened to me and not have sailed from Crete; then we would have avoided all this damage and loss. 
I condemned them for the way they lived and acted, and I scattered them through foreign countries. 
Then say to the king, ‘The LORD, the God of the Hebrews, sent me to tell you to let his people go, so that they can worship him in the desert. But until now you have not listened. 
Peter said to him, “Ananias, why did you let Satan take control of you and make you lie to the Holy Spirit by keeping part of the money you received for the property? 
If the one who dedicated the field wishes to buy it back, he or she must pay the price plus an additional twenty per cent. 
Surely the LORD looks for faithfulness. : He struck you, but you paid no attention; : he crushed you, but you refused to learn. : You were stubborn and would not turn from your sins. 
The man said, “Let me go; daylight is coming.” : “I won't, unless you bless me,” Jacob answered. 
The scripture says, “I spoke because I believed.” In the same spirit of faith, we also speak because we believe. 
Make seven lamps for the lampstand and set them up so that they shine towards the front. 
He said to me, “This water flows through the land to the east and down into the Jordan Valley and to the Dead Sea. When it flows into the Dead Sea, it replaces the salt water of that sea with fresh water. 
You did what you said you would do to us and our rulers. You punished Jerusalem more severely than any other city on earth, 
Now you propose to fight against the royal authority that the LORD gave to David's descendants. You have a huge army and have with you the gold bull calves that Jeroboam made to be your gods. 
Then the king said to Haman, “Hurry and get the robes and the horse, and provide these honours for Mordecai the Jew. Do everything for him that you have suggested. You will find him sitting at the entrance of the palace.” 
He has kept us alive : and has not allowed us to fall. 
In the same way, he gave them the cup after the supper, saying, “This cup is God's new covenant sealed with my blood, which is poured out for you. 
and was not at all ashamed. She defiled the land, and she committed adultery by worshipping stones and trees. 
Jacob said to Joseph, “Almighty God appeared to me at Luz in the land of Canaan and blessed me. 
The LORD is our God; : his commands are for all the world. 
The power of the LORD came on Elijah; he fastened his clothes tight round his waist and ran ahead of Ahab all the way to Jezreel.
Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. 
In the 38th year of the reign of King Uzziah of Judah, Zechariah son of Jeroboam II became king of Israel, and he ruled in Samaria for six months. 
The chief of the Levites was Eleazar son of Aaron the priest. He was in charge of those who carried out the duties in the Holy Place. 
This is something a fool cannot know; : a stupid person cannot understand
Have you ever visited the storerooms, : where I keep the snow and the hail? 
After spending the night there, Jacob chose from his livestock as a present for his brother Esau: 200 female goats and twenty males, 200 female sheep and twenty males, thirty milk camels with their young, forty cows and ten bulls, twenty female donkeys and ten males. 
So Samson went down to Timnah with his father and mother. As they were going through the vineyards there, he heard a young lion roaring. 
I do not want anyone to die,” says the Sovereign LORD. “Turn away from your sins and live.”
Elijah was the same kind of person as we are. He prayed earnestly that there would be no rain, and no rain fell on the land for three and a half years. 
I rebuke and punish all whom I love. Be in earnest, then, and turn from your sins.  
When you face the Amalekites and the Canaanites, you will die in battle; the LORD will not be with you, because you have refused to follow him.” 
Don't do anything from selfish ambition or from a cheap desire to boast, but be humble towards one another, always considering others better than yourselves. 
When I felt my life slipping away, : then, O LORD, I prayed to you, : and in your holy Temple you heard me. 
When Jesus came to that place, he looked up and said to Zacchaeus, “Hurry down, Zacchaeus, because I must stay in your house today.” 
in Zanoah, in Adullam, and in the villages near these towns. They lived in Lachish and on the farms near by, and in Azekah and its villages. That is to say, the people of Judah lived in the territory between Beersheba in the south and the Valley of Hinnom in the north. 
When the governor saw what had happened, he believed; for he was greatly amazed at the teaching about the Lord. 
“Keep the Harvest Festival when you begin to harvest the first crop of your wheat, and keep the Festival of Shelters in the autumn when you gather your fruit. 
Once again the LORD spoke to Jonah. 
King David did not take a census of the people who were under the age of twenty, because of the LORD's promise to make the people of Israel as numerous as the stars in the sky. 
Then Peter said, “I swear that I am telling the truth! May God punish me if I am not! I do not know the man you are talking about!” 
So they ran and brought Saul out to the people, and they could see that he was a head taller than anyone else. 
In the cloud and in the sea they were all baptized as followers of Moses. 
The LORD said to Moses, 
Don't lose yourself in sorrow; drive it away. Remember that we must all die sometime. 
The king was very angry; so he sent his soldiers, who killed those murderers and burnt down their city.  
Submit yourselves to one another because of your reverence for Christ. 
Following the disgusting practices of the nations whom the LORD had driven out of the land as his people advanced, Manasseh sinned against the LORD. 
Reuben said to his father, “If I do not bring Benjamin back to you, you can kill my two sons. Put him in my care, and I will bring him back.” 
Fill every valley; : level every mountain. : The hills will become a plain, : and the rough country will be made smooth. 
So Elijah started out. : The famine in Samaria was at its worst, 
The next morning, after Pashhur had released me from the chains, I said to him, “The LORD did not name you Pashhur. The name he has given you is ‘Terror Everywhere’. 
He went into the presence of Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. 
But these are only hints of his power, : only the whispers that we have heard. : Who can know how truly great God is?
In this area there is to be a square plot of land for the Temple, 250 metres along each side, entirely surrounded by an open space 25 metres wide. 
So Moses told the people to observe the Passover, 
“The time is coming when I will send famine on the land. People will be hungry, but not for bread; they will be thirsty, but not for water. They will hunger and thirst for a message from the LORD. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken. 
However, I do not want to force you to help me; rather, I would like you to do it of your own free will. So I will not do anything unless you agree. 
Wolves and lambs will eat together; lions will eat straw, as cattle do, and snakes will no longer be dangerous. On Zion, my sacred hill, there will be nothing harmful or evil.”
So David and his men started crossing the Jordan, and by daybreak they had all gone across. 
So there was great joy in that city. 
This proves that everything that the LORD said about the descendants of Ahab will come true. The LORD has done what he promised through his prophet Elijah.” 
Yet I always stay close to you, : and you hold me by the hand. 
Admit when you are wrong, and you will avoid embarrassment. 
It is not the spiritual that comes first, but the physical, and then the spiritual. 
You let the surrounding nations fight over our land; : our enemies insult us. 
One day David asked, “Is there anyone left of Saul's family? If there is, I would like to show him kindness for Jonathan's sake.” 
He throws me down in the mud; : I am no better than dirt. 
The treaty you have made with death will be abolished, and your agreement with the world of the dead will be cancelled. When disaster sweeps down, you will be overcome. 
Then the Philistines went back to the Valley of Rephaim and occupied it again. 
for the silver tables, and for each gold table on which were placed the loaves of bread offered to God. 
The LORD said, “I was ready to answer my people's prayers, but they did not pray. I was ready for them to find me, but they did not even try. The nation did not pray to me, even though I was always ready to answer, ‘Here I am; I will help you.’ 
because he didn't kill me before I was born. : Then my mother's womb would have been my grave. 
I saw the Lord standing by the altar. He gave the command: “Strike the tops of the temple columns so hard that the whole porch will shake. Break them off and let them fall on the heads of the people. I will kill the rest of the people in war. No one will get away; not one will escape. 
For I swear to you by the life and strength of Nebuchadnezzar, king of the whole world, who sent you to bring order to all the subjects of his kingdom, that not only have you made people serve him, but because of you even the wild animals, the livestock, and the birds obey him. Because of you, Nebuchadnezzar and his entire kingdom will prosper.  
I will let them graze in safety in the mountain meadows and the valleys and in all the green pastures of the land of Israel. 
You were angry with the chief baker and me, and you put us in prison in the house of the captain of the guard. 
He will fulfil what he has planned for me; : that plan is just one of the many he has; 
When I am in trouble, : don't turn away from me! : Listen to me, : and answer me quickly when I call! 
You are the people of God; he loved you and chose you for his own. So then, you must clothe yourselves with compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience. 
Even if they dig their way down to the world of the dead, I will catch them. Even if they climb up to heaven, I will bring them down. 
Have you been to the place where the sun comes up, : or the place from which the east wind blows? 
If any of his people in exile need help to return, their neighbours are to give them this help. They are to provide them with silver and gold, supplies and pack animals, as well as offerings to present in the Temple of God in Jerusalem.” 
so do not be too angry with us or hold our sins against us for ever. We are your people; be merciful to us. 
Some of the women of our group surprised us; they went at dawn to the tomb, 
Suddenly the LORD rained burning sulphur on the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah 
I cry aloud to God; : I cry aloud, and he hears me. 
This is the list of the priestly clans that returned from exile: : Jedaiah (descendants of Jeshua) — 973 : Immer — 1,052 : Pashhur — 1,247 : Harim — 1,017 
I said, “Has King Jehoiachin become like a broken jar that is thrown away and that no one wants? Is that why he and his children have been taken into exile to a land they know nothing about?” 
Solomon was king of all Israel, 
but she became angry with him, went back to her father's house in Bethlehem, and stayed there four months. 
It was made by the one who sits on his throne : above the earth and beyond the sky; : the people below look as tiny as ants. : He stretched out the sky like a curtain, : like a tent in which to live. 
And if their dead bodies fall on anything, it will be unclean. This applies to any article of wood, cloth, leather, or sacking, no matter what it is used for. It shall be dipped in water, but it will remain unclean until evening. 
Sensible people will consider every opinion, but arrogant people will let nothing stand in their way. 
I am bringing the Babylonians to power, those fierce, restless people. They are marching out across the world to conquer other lands. 
On a harp each string keeps its own pitch, but each sound can be combined with others to make different melodies. That is how it was in those days, when the very elements entered into new combinations. Look at what happened! 
Take care to make them according to the plan that I showed you on the mountain.
When that time comes, I will free you from the power of Assyria, and their yoke will no longer be a burden on your shoulders.” 
And now people use this proverb against me; : they come and spit in my face. 
Then Samuel made each tribe come forward, and the LORD picked the tribe of Benjamin. 
can say to him, : “You are my defender and protector. : You are my God; in you I trust.” 
The seeds die in the dry earth. : There is no grain to be stored, : and so the empty granaries are in ruins. 
Keep this festival, because it was on this day that I brought your tribes out of Egypt. For all time to come you must celebrate this day as a festival. 
The man who had the evil spirit in him attacked them with such violence that he overpowered them all. They ran away from his house, wounded and with their clothes torn off. 
The cities farthest south that belonged to them, those that were near the border of Edom, were Kabzeel, Eder, Jagur, 
When Jeroboam son of Nebat, who had gone to Egypt to escape from King Solomon, heard this news, he returned home. 
But his master said, “We're not going to stop in a city where the people are not Israelites. We'll pass on and go a little farther and spend the night at Gibeah or Ramah.” 
For God's promise was made to you and your children, and to all who are far away — all whom the Lord our God calls to himself.” 
“Gad will be attacked by a band of robbers, : But he will turn and pursue them. 
When that time comes, Jerusalem will be called ‘The Throne of the LORD’, and all nations will gather there to worship me. They will no longer do what their stubborn and evil hearts tell them. 
But if you are afraid to attack, go down to the camp with your servant Purah. 
Levi had three sons: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
I waited patiently for the LORD's help; : then he listened to me and heard my cry. 
I served him in the sacred Tent : and then made my home on Mount Zion. 
If you love money, you will never be satisfied; if you long to be rich, you will never get all you want. It is useless. 
All the princes, governors, lieutenant-governors, and other officials of the king gathered to look at the three men, who had not been harmed by the fire. Their hair was not singed, their clothes were not burnt, and there was no smell of smoke on them. 
The Egyptians treated us harshly and forced us to work as slaves. 
that we had spent enough time wandering about in those hills and that we should go north. 
But if you treat people according to their outward appearance, you are guilty of sin, and the Law condemns you as a lawbreaker. 
Yiron, Migdalel, Horem, Bethanath, and Beth Shemesh: nineteen cities, along with the towns round them. 
Your fame will be great, and people will for ever say, ‘The LORD Almighty is God over Israel.’ And you will preserve my dynasty for all time. 
The LORD Almighty says, “I have heard the people of Moab and Ammon insulting and taunting my people, and boasting that they would seize their land. 
He took pride in serving the LORD and destroyed all the pagan places of worship and the symbols of the goddess Asherah in Judah. 
At that time two men will be working in a field: one will be taken away, the other will be left behind. 
By his wisdom he made the heavens; : his love is eternal; 
The Egyptians were afraid of them : and were glad when they left. 
Great people call on him for his services, and he is seen in the company of rulers. He travels to foreign lands in his efforts to learn about human good and evil. 
He covered himself with darkness; : thick clouds, full of water, surrounded him; 
Grandparents are proud of their grandchildren, just as children are proud of their parents. 
Even a mother wolf will nurse her cubs, : but my people are like ostriches, cruel to their young. 
Jesus got into one of the boats — it belonged to Simon — and asked him to push off a little from the shore. Jesus sat in the boat and taught the crowd. 
There in the desert they all complained to Moses and Aaron 
All these clans were listed by Moses and Eleazar when they took a census of the Israelites in the plains of Moab across the River Jordan from Jericho. 
“The right time has come,” he said, “and the Kingdom of God is near! Turn away from your sins and believe the Good News!” 
Then Jesus ordered the people not to speak of it to anyone; but the more he ordered them not to, the more they spoke. 
So then, everything depends, not on what human beings want or do, but only on God's mercy. 
Don't give the Devil a chance. 
I saw that each creature had what looked like a human hand under each of its wings. 
Because of her the king treated Abram well and gave him flocks of sheep and goats, cattle, donkeys, slaves, and camels. 
The Sovereign LORD said, “I will bring back the people of Israel from the nations where I scattered them, and all the nations will know that I am holy. The people of Israel will live in their own land, the land that I gave to my servant Jacob. 
King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia made Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam and grandson of Shaphan, governor of Judah, and placed him in charge of all those who had not been taken away to Babylonia. 
Cattle know who owns them, and donkeys know where their master feeds them. But that is more than my people Israel know. They don't understand at all.” 
When we realize how vast and beautiful the creation is, we are learning about the Creator at the same time. 
Sheshan had no sons, only daughters. He had an Egyptian servant named Jarha, 
The LORD says, : “Do you think I sent my people away : like a man who divorces his wife? : Where, then, are the papers of divorce? : Do you think I sold you into captivity : like a man who sells his children as slaves? : No, you went away captive because of your sins; : you were sent away because of your crimes. 
She answered, “Your Majesty, you made me a solemn promise in the name of the LORD your God that my son Solomon would be king after you. 
I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken. Take off your crown and your turban. Nothing will be the same again. Raise the poor to power! Bring down those who are ruling! 
The angel said, “This woman represents wickedness.” Then he pushed her down into the basket and put the lid back down. 
The animal for this offering is to be killed on the north side of the altar, where the animals for the burnt offerings are killed, and its blood is to be thrown against all four sides of the altar. 
Put the loaves in two rows, six in each row, on the table covered with pure gold, which is in the LORD's presence. 
So you must follow the example of good people and live a righteous life. 
We were the ones who wandered off the right road. We never lived in the light of righteousness; we never caught the first glimmer of its light. 
LORD, who may enter your Temple? : Who may worship on Zion, your sacred hill? 
who were burying the firstborn sons that the LORD had killed. By doing this, the LORD showed that he was more powerful than the gods of Egypt. 
Whoever does not love does not know God, for God is love. 
She entered the soul of one of God's servants and stood up to dreaded kings by performing miracles. 
But not even a dog will bark at the Israelites or their animals. Then you will know that I, the LORD, make a distinction between the Egyptians and the Israelites.’ ” 
King David said, “I must show loyal friendship to Hanun, as his father Nahash did to me.” So David sent messengers to express his sympathy. : When they arrived in Ammon, 
The length of their lives is decided beforehand — : the number of months they will live. : You have settled it, and it can't be changed. 
Your prophets had nothing to tell you but lies; : Their preaching deceived you by never exposing your sin. : They made you think you did not need to repent. 
He placed one of the gold bull calves in Bethel and the other in Dan. 
For the unbelieving husband is made acceptable to God by being united to his wife, and the unbelieving wife is made acceptable to God by being united to her Christian husband. If this were not so, their children would be like pagan children; but as it is, they are acceptable to God. 
Did all your experience mean nothing at all? Surely it meant something! 
he saddled his donkey and went to King Achish in Gath, to find his slaves. He found them and brought them back home. 
But in addition, you should choose some capable men and appoint them as leaders of the people: leaders of thousands, hundreds, fifties, and tens. They must be God-fearing men who can be trusted and who cannot be bribed. 
How can anyone know what is best for us in this short, useless life of ours — a life that passes like a shadow? How can we know what will happen in the world after we die?
Those who love their brothers and sisters live in the light, and so there is nothing in them that will cause someone else to sin. 
If, then, as we try to be put right with God by our union with Christ, we are found to be sinners as much as the Gentiles are — does this mean that Christ is serving the cause of sin? By no means! 
This stopped the plague, and he was left standing between the living and the dead. 
As soon as night came, the believers sent Paul and Silas to Berea. When they arrived, they went to the synagogue. 
said, “Prophesy for us, Messiah! Guess who hit you!” 
Open your homes to each other without complaining. 
But if they have not disobeyed the law of their god, then you should leave them alone, or he will defend them, and we will be disgraced before the whole world.” 
Ethan, Zimmah, Shimei, 
When he saw that the three men could not answer Job, he was angry 
in the evening after it was dark. 
He has always been praised for what he does; : you also must praise him. 
Let us try to know the LORD. He will come to us as surely as the day dawns, as surely as the spring rains that water the earth.” 
Just as a bird hovers over its nest to protect its young, so I, the LORD Almighty, will protect Jerusalem and defend it.” 
And so I walk in the presence of the LORD : in the world of the living. 
If a man brings a fellowship offering in fulfilment of a vow or as his own freewill offering, not all of it has to be eaten on the day it is offered, but any that is left over may be eaten on the following day. 
But Moses answered, “No, Lord, please send someone else.” 
Be glad about this, even though it may now be necessary for you to be sad for a while because of the many kinds of trials you suffer. 
(these leaders knew what Israel should do and the best time to do it); 
(There will be a town near by named after the army.) And so the land will be made clean again.” 
So then, the time will come when this place will no longer be called Topheth or the Valley of Hinnom. Instead, it will be known as the Valley of Slaughter. 
He makes some poor and others rich; : he humbles some and makes others great. 
Take your bow and arrows, go out into the country, and kill an animal for me. 
The testimony is this: God has given us eternal life, and this life has its source in his Son. 
and everyone who was building kept a sword strapped to his waist. The man who was to sound the alarm on the bugle stayed with me. 
We destroyed all the towns and put to death all the men, women, and children, just as we did in the towns that belonged to King Sihon of Heshbon. 
The city's rulers govern for bribes, the priests interpret the Law for pay, the prophets give their revelations for money — and they all claim that the LORD is with them. “No harm will come to us,” they say. “The LORD is with us.” 
“Mortal man, prophesy. Tell the people what I, the Lord, am saying: : A sword, a sword is sharpened and polished. 
I will take pleasure in doing good things for them, and I will establish them permanently in this land. 
that the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, had said, “I am going to bring on this city and on every nearby town all the punishment that I said I would, because you are stubborn and will not listen to what I say.”
All his officials stood next to him as the royal bodyguard passed by in front of him. The 600 soldiers who had followed him from Gath also passed by, 
Here I am at the well. When a young woman comes out to get water, I will ask her to give me a drink of water from her jar. 
They agree on their plan : and form an alliance against you
“As I was travelling and coming near Damascus, about midday a bright light from the sky flashed suddenly round me. 
But suppose someone unintentionally fails to keep some of these regulations which the LORD has given Moses. 
You must also purify every piece of clothing and everything made of leather, goats' hair, or wood.” 
You save those who are humble, : but you humble those who are proud. 
that you have not failed to receive a single blessing, as you wait for our Lord Jesus Christ to be revealed. 
They do not suffer as other people do; : they do not have the troubles that others have. 
the graves broke open, and many of God's people who had died were raised to life. 
Then they saw what looked like tongues of fire which spread out and touched each person there. 
I keep your law in my heart, : so that I will not sin against you. 
I have chosen a place for my people Israel and have settled them there, where they will live without being oppressed any more. Ever since they entered this land they have been attacked by violent people, but this will not happen again. I promise to defeat all your enemies and to give you descendants. 
Leah became pregnant again and bore Jacob a sixth son. 
The families of the clan of Merari were assigned twelve cities from the territories of Reuben, Gad, and Zebulun. 
This is the message of the LORD that came to me. 
An inner court was built in front of the Temple, enclosed with walls which had one layer of cedar beams for every three layers of stone. 
of saffron, calamus, and cinnamon, : or incense of every kind. : Myrrh and aloes grow there : with all the most fragrant perfumes. 
it is sung by children and babies. : You are safe and secure from all your enemies; : you stop anyone who opposes you. 
There are seven things that the LORD hates and cannot tolerate: : a proud look, : a lying tongue, : hands that kill innocent people, : a mind that thinks up wicked plans, : feet that hurry off to do evil, : a witness who tells one lie after another, : and someone who stirs up trouble among friends. 
I am telling you the truth: when you were young, you used to get ready and go anywhere you wanted to; but when you are old, you will stretch out your hands and someone else will bind you and take you where you don't want to go.”  
David escaped and went to Samuel in Ramah and told him everything that Saul had done to him. Then he and Samuel went to Naioth and stayed there. 
Now get me a musician.” : As the musician played his harp, the power of the LORD came on Elisha, 
For you have been given the privilege of serving Christ, not only by believing in him, but also by suffering for him. 
Then the LORD said, “Why have you done this terrible thing? Your brother's blood is crying out to me from the ground, like a voice calling for revenge. 
Then they preached the word of the Lord to him and to all the others in his house. 
I go to you for protection, LORD; : rescue me from my enemies. 
After you have purified and dedicated the Levites, they will be qualified to work in the Tent. 
I said, “I have worked, but how hopeless it is! : I have used up my strength, but have accomplished nothing.” : Yet I can trust the LORD to defend my cause; : he will reward me for what I do. 
Light shines in the darkness for good people, : for those who are merciful, kind, and just. 
I will shout for joy as I play for you; : with my whole being I will sing : because you have saved me. 
Because it was well watered, : It grew taller than other trees. : Its branches grew thick and long. 
For his first son Er, Judah got a wife whose name was Tamar. 
The LORD says, “I have wiped out whole nations; I have destroyed their cities and left their walls and towers in ruins. The cities are deserted; the streets are empty — no one is left. 
Come, LORD! Oppose my enemies and defeat them! : Save me from the wicked by your sword; 
He will show you a large furnished room upstairs, where you will get everything ready.” 
Because of your constant love be good to me, : so that I may obey your laws. 
“What shall I give you as a pledge?” he asked. : She answered, “Your seal with its cord and the stick you are carrying.” He gave them to her. Then they had intercourse, and she became pregnant. 
I will scatter them among nations that neither they nor their ancestors have heard about, and I will send armies against them until I have completely destroyed them.” 
They accuse me, shouting, : “We saw what you did!” 
The other Jewish brothers and sisters also started acting like cowards along with Peter; and even Barnabas was swept along by their cowardly action. 
He shall bring the bull to the entrance of the Tent, put his hand on its head, and kill it there in the LORD's presence. 
He saves and rescues; : he performs wonders and miracles : in heaven and on earth. : He saved Daniel from being killed by the lions.” 
And so the land will dry up, and everything that lives on it will die. All the animals and birds, and even the fish, will die.” 
But he said to them, “Why are you alarmed? Why are these doubts coming up in your minds?  
But one of those standing there drew his sword and struck at the High Priest's slave, cutting off his ear. 
when it comes on you like a storm, bringing fierce winds of trouble, and you are in pain and misery. 
If someone does this favour for you, don't forget it; he has risked his good name for you. 
“We don't understand this,” his officials said to him. “While the child was alive, you wept for him and would not eat; but as soon as he died, you got up and ate!” 
“Joseph is like a wild donkey by a spring, : A wild colt on a hillside. 
The rings to hold the poles for carrying the table were placed near the rim. 
Jesus got into the boat and went back across the lake to his own town,  
So Jesus said again, “I am telling you the truth: I am the gate for the sheep.  
So many people came together that there was no room left, not even out in front of the door. Jesus was preaching the message to them 
Any clay pot that the man touches must be broken, and any wooden bowl that he touches must be washed. 
and said, “LORD, I could never drink this! It would be like drinking the blood of these men who risked their lives!” So he refused to drink it. : Those were the brave deeds of the three famous soldiers. 
So then, David, tomorrow morning all of you who left Saul and came over to me will have to get up early and leave as soon as it's light.” 
Gideon sent messengers through all the hill country of Ephraim to say, “Come down and fight the Midianites. Hold the River Jordan and the streams as far as Bethbarah, to keep the Midianites from crossing them.” The men of Ephraim were called together, and they held the River Jordan and the streams as far as Bethbarah. 
Do you think you will have any courage left or have strength enough to lift your hand when I am finished with you? I, the LORD, have spoken, and I keep my word. 
From all the tribes of Israel people who sincerely wanted to worship the LORD, the God of Israel, followed the Levites to Jerusalem, so that they could offer sacrifices to the LORD, the God of their ancestors. 
Jehoash took Amaziah prisoner, advanced on Jerusalem, and tore down the city wall from Ephraim Gate to the Corner Gate, a distance of nearly 200 metres. 
This is what we want you to do. There are four men here who have taken a vow. 
the ten lampstands that stood in front of the Most Holy Place, five on the south side and five on the north; the flowers, lamps, and tongs; 
It was well known throughout the empire that Mordecai was now a powerful man in the palace and was growing more powerful. 
So then, as the scripture says, “Whoever wants to boast must boast of what the Lord has done.”
“That is a difficult request to grant,” Elijah replied. “But you will receive it if you see me as I am being taken away from you; if you don't see me, you won't receive it.” 
The flesh of the animal must be eaten on the day it is sacrificed; none of it may be left until the next morning. 
Moses gave you the Law, didn't he? But not one of you obeys the Law. Why are you trying to kill me?” 
With their idols they have made me angry, : jealous with their so-called gods, : gods that are really not gods. : So I will use a so-called nation to make them angry; : I will make them jealous with a nation of fools. 
and God made Ashpenaz sympathetic to Daniel. 
I will establish my people in the land and make them prosper. : I will show love to those who were called “Unloved”, : and to those who were called “Not-my-People” : I will say, “You are my people,” : and they will answer, “You are our God.”
after that, he lived another 119 years and had other children. 
Explaining something to a fool is like explaining it to a sleepy person; when you have finished, he'll say, “What was that again?” 
When your proclamation is made known all over this huge empire, every woman will treat her husband with proper respect, whether he's rich or poor.” 
So he told me to go and give the people this message: “No matter how much you listen, you will not understand. No matter how much you look, you will not know what is happening.” 
“I have gone about among all of you, preaching the Kingdom of God. And now I know that none of you will ever see me again. 
Our ancestors, our kings, leaders, and priests : have not kept your Law. : They did not listen to your commands and warnings. 
Everyone worshipped the dragon because he had given his authority to the beast. They worshipped the beast also, saying, “Who is like the beast? Who can fight against it?” 
He has made you ruler of all the inhabited earth and ruler over all the animals and birds. You are the head of gold. 
Nineveh, are you any better than Thebes, the capital of Egypt? She too had a river to protect her like a wall — the Nile was her defence. 
In the hill country there were Shamir, Jattir, Socoh, 
He put Joseph in charge of all the other prisoners and made him responsible for everything that was done in the prison. 
You wear yourselves out looking for other gods, but you never give up. You think your obscene idols give you strength, and so you never grow weak. 
Gather for worship on the tenth day of the seventh month; eat no food and do no work. 
We have a young sister, : and her breasts are still small. : What will we do for her : when a young man comes courting? 
If you cannot control your anger, you are as helpless as a city without walls, open to attack.
They are like trees growing near a stream : and sending out roots to the water. : They are not afraid when hot weather comes, : because their leaves stay green; : they have no worries when there is no rain; : they keep on bearing fruit. 
Many of the people who had come to visit Mary saw what Jesus did, and they believed in him. 
In addition there were 220 temple workmen whose ancestors had been designated by King David and his officials to assist the Levites. They were all listed by name. 
who said, “We will take for our own : the land that belongs to God.” 
Make your servant glad, O Lord, : because my prayers go up to you. 
At that time, Judith heard about Uzziah's decision. She was the daughter of Merari, the granddaughter of Ox and the great-granddaughter of Joseph. Joseph's ancestors were Oziel, Elkiah, Ananias, Gideon, Raphaim, Ahitub, Elijah, Hilkiah, Eliab, Nathanael, Salamiel, Sarasadai, and Israel. 
Use them to make incense, mixed like perfume. Add salt to keep it pure and holy. 
but those who live a life of sin and wickedness are their own worst enemies. 
At that time Joshua issued a solemn warning: “Anyone who tries to rebuild the city of Jericho will be under the LORD's curse. : Whoever lays the foundation will lose his eldest son; : Whoever builds the gates will lose his youngest.” 
Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas and Matthew, the tax collector; James son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus; 
So in Xerxes' seventh year as king, in the tenth month, the month of Tebeth, Esther was brought to King Xerxes in the royal palace. 
And if you command the lightning to flash, : will it come to you and say, “At your service”? 
After that, Enoch lived in fellowship with God for 300 years and had other children. 
the humble will possess the land : and enjoy prosperity and peace. 
Foolish people will learn to understand, and those who are always grumbling will be glad to be taught.”
that a people who came from Egypt has spread out over the whole land. He wants me to curse them for him, so that he can fight them and drive them out.” 
Soon after Josiah's son Zedekiah became king of Judah, the LORD told me 
Each one will say in public, “I have sinned. : I have not done right, but God spared me. 
The following priests lived in Jerusalem: : Jedaiah, Jehoiarib, and Jachin : Azariah son of Hilkiah (the chief official in the Temple), whose ancestors included Meshullam, Zadok, Meraioth, and Ahitub : Adaiah son of Jeroham, whose ancestors included Pashhur and Malchijah : Maasai son of Adiel, whose ancestors included Jahzerah, Meshullam, Meshillemith, and Immer 
He caused them great distress : by pouring out his anger and fierce rage, : which came as messengers of death. 
Then other stones are to be used to replace the stones that were removed, and new plaster will be used to cover the walls. 
They will swarm in the rugged valleys and in the caves in the rocks, and they will cover every thorn bush and every pasture. 
Then the priest, wearing his linen robe and linen shorts, shall remove the greasy ashes left on the altar and put them at the side of the altar. 
He gives generously to the needy, : and his kindness never fails; : he will be powerful and respected. 
Singing to a person who is depressed is like taking off his clothes on a cold day or like rubbing salt in a wound. 
He did the same thing in the cities and the devastated areas of Manasseh, Ephraim, and Simeon, and as far north as Naphtali. 
She said to her husband, “I am sure that this man who comes here so often is a holy man. 
“If I were hungry, I would not ask you for food, : for the world and everything in it is mine. 
young women and young men, : old people and children too. 
They brought him to Jesus. : As soon as the spirit saw Jesus, it threw the boy into a fit, so that he fell on the ground and rolled round, foaming at the mouth. 
Then Samuel went to Ramah, and King Saul went home to Gibeah. 
the Sidonians, the Amalekites, and the Maonites oppressed you in the past, and you cried out to me. Did I not save you from them? 
It is the same with the artist and the craftsman, who work night and day engraving precious stones, carefully working out new designs. They take great pains to produce a lifelike image, and will work far into the night to finish the work. 
the rings they wear on their fingers and in their noses; 
If one day the sky could be measured : and the foundations of the earth explored, : only then would he reject the people of Israel : because of all they have done. : The LORD has spoken. 
Stay away from foolish people; they have nothing to teach you. 
While the people walked across on dry ground, the priests carrying the LORD's Covenant Box stood on dry ground in the middle of the Jordan until all the people had crossed over.
until the morning breezes blow : and the darkness disappears. : Return, my darling, like a gazelle, : like a stag on the mountains of Bether.
to your knowledge add self-control; to your self-control add endurance; to your endurance add godliness; 
He burnt down the Temple, the palace, and the houses of all the important people in Jerusalem, 
This is the list of the Israelite heads of families and clan leaders and their officials who administered the work of the kingdom. Each month of the year a different group of 24,000 men was on duty under the commander for that month. 
Another one said, ‘I have just got married, and for that reason I cannot come.’ 
No! We believe and are saved by the grace of the Lord Jesus, just as they are.” 
The descendants of Javan were the people of Elishah, Spain, Cyprus, and Rhodes. 
And even though I am far away from you in body, still I am there with you in spirit; I already passed judgement on the man who has done this terrible thing, and as though I were there with you
When Methuselah was 187, he had a son, Lamech, 
In addition, the king told the people of Jerusalem to bring the offerings to which the priests and the Levites were entitled, so that they could give all their time to the requirements of the Law of the LORD. 
The part of the special area that is left, 12.5 kilometres by 2.5 kilometres, is not holy, but is for the general use of the people. They may live there and use the land. The city is to be in the centre of it, 
That night, the king, his officials, and all the other Egyptians were awakened. There was loud crying throughout Egypt, because there was not one home in which there was not a dead son. 
where they stood side by side facing the entrance. Each had two wings, each wing 2.2 metres long, which were spread out so that they touched each other in the centre of the room and reached the wall on either side of the room, stretching across the full width of about nine metres. 
He then presented his brothers to the king. 
The LORD has spoken: “Those who rule Judah are doomed because they rebel against me. They follow plans that I did not make, and sign treaties against my will, piling one sin on another. 
to give this message to King Rehoboam and to all the people of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin
Jeush and Beriah did not have many descendants, so they were counted as one clan. 
“The fasts held in the fourth, fifth, seventh, and tenth months will become festivals of joy and gladness for the people of Judah. You must love truth and peace.” 
Don't be envious of sinful people; let reverence for the LORD be the concern of your life. 
When he heard the crowd passing by, he asked, “What is this?” 
See what big letters I make as I write to you now with my own hand! 
The commander of Saul's army, Abner son of Ner, had fled with Saul's son Ishbosheth across the Jordan to Mahanaim. 
They talked about the God of Jerusalem in the same way that they talked about the gods of the other peoples, idols made by human hands. 
“I watch over it and water it continually. I guard it night and day so that no one will harm it. 
The nations will fear the LORD; : all the kings of the earth will fear his power. 
We are proud that our conscience assures us that our lives in this world, and especially our relations with you, have been ruled by God-given frankness and sincerity, by the power of God's grace, and not by human wisdom. 
The chief priests and the Pharisees heard Jesus' parables and knew that he was talking about them, 
They made the breastpiece of the same materials as the ephod and with similar embroidery. 
They put a huge pile of stones over him, which is there to this day. That is why that place is still called Trouble Valley. : Then the LORD was no longer furious.
Huram also made ten bronze carts; each was 1.8 metres long, 1.8 metres wide, and 1.3 metres high. 
The people of Jerusalem won't believe this, because of the treaties they have made. But this prediction is to remind them of their sins and to warn them that they will be captured. 
with gold, silver, bronze, and iron. Now begin the work, and may the LORD be with you.” 
I know their thoughts and their deeds. I am coming to gather the people of all the nations. When they come together, they will see what my power can do 
Don't rely on money to make you independent. 
“I am the servant of Abraham,” he began. 
Aren't all his sisters living here? Where did he get all this?” 
But I was let down in a basket through an opening in the wall and escaped from him.
but if anyone who is not clean eats it, he shall no longer be considered one of God's people. 
If a man buys a female slave to give to his son, he is to treat her like a daughter. 
That is why I asked to see you and talk with you. As a matter of fact, I am bound in chains like this for the sake of him for whom the people of Israel hope.” 
so he went up to Mount Zalmon with his men. There he took an axe, cut a branch off a tree, and put it on his shoulder. He told his men to be quick and do the same thing. 
But soon you will not have enough corn and olive oil, and there will be no wine. 
He placed in the Temple all the objects his father had dedicated to God, as well as the gold and silver objects that he himself dedicated. 
O God, put a curse on the day I was born; : put a curse on the night when I was conceived! 
At that time there was an old prophet living in Bethel. His sons came and told him what the prophet from Judah had done in Bethel that day and what he had said to King Jeroboam. 
He agreed to let them try it for ten days. 
But godless people are like thorns that are thrown away; : no one can touch them with bare hands. 
The craftsmen help and encourage one another. 
So Herodias held a grudge against John and wanted to kill him, but she could not because of Herod. 
and the church that meets in your house, and our sister Apphia, and our fellow-soldier Archippus
my soul is glad because of God my Saviour, 
And so be glad, you heavens, and all you that live there! But how terrible for the earth and the sea! For the Devil has come down to you, and he is filled with rage, because he knows that he has only a little time left.” 
You have made up your minds that you want to be like the other nations, like the people who live in other countries and worship trees and rocks. But that will never be. 
When Abram was 99 years old, the LORD appeared to him and said, “I am the Almighty God. Obey me and always do what is right. 
Then he took him by his right-hand and helped him up. At once the man's feet and ankles became strong; 
“If someone agrees to keep a neighbour's donkey, cow, sheep, or other animal for him, and the animal dies or is injured or is carried off in a raid, and if there was no witness, 
So when they saw King Jehoshaphat, they all thought that he was the king of Israel, and they turned to attack him. But Jehoshaphat gave a shout, and the LORD God rescued him and turned the attack away from him. 
A nagging wife is like water going drip-drip-drip on a rainy day. 
But when the servants told Queen Vashti of the king's command, she refused to come. This made the king furious. 
The whole world stands in awe : of the great things that you have done. : Your deeds bring shouts of joy : from one end of the earth to the other. 
Does God give you the Spirit and work miracles among you because you do what the Law requires or because you hear the gospel and believe it? 
In addition to offering the sacrifices that were burnt whole, the priests were responsible for burning the fat that was offered from the sacrifices which the people ate, and for pouring out the wine that was presented with the burnt offerings. : And so worship in the Temple was begun again. 
Do not let what you regard as good get a bad name. 
I will destroy her grapevines and her fig trees, which she said her lovers gave her for serving them. I will turn her vineyards and orchards into a wilderness; wild animals will destroy them. 
When David heard of it, he gathered the Israelite troops, crossed the Jordan, and put them in position facing the Syrians. The fighting began, 
Luke, our dear doctor, and Demas send you their greetings. 
The king is not to have many wives, because this would make him turn away from the LORD; and he is not to make himself rich with silver and gold. 
There is no doubt that the one who blesses is greater than the one who is blessed. 
The rain poured down, the rivers overflowed, and the wind blew hard against that house. But it did not fall, because it was built on rock. 
There were some foreigners travelling with the Israelites. They had a strong craving for meat, and even the Israelites themselves began to complain: “If only we could have some meat! 
Take care not to drink any wine or beer, or eat any forbidden food; 
“On the first day of the first month set up the Tent of the LORD's presence. 
In days to come : the mountain where the Temple stands : will be the highest one of all, : towering above all the hills. : Many nations will come streaming to it, 
When John's disciples heard about this, they came and took away his body, and buried it. 
“No Ammonite or Moabite — or any of their descendants, even in the tenth generation — may be included among the LORD's people. 
God bless the coming kingdom of King David, our father! Praise God!” 
“Now, mortal man, I am making you a watchman for the nation of Israel. You must pass on to them the warnings I give you. 
All the people of Israel were listed according to their families, and this information was recorded in The Book of the Kings of Israel. : The people of Judah had been deported to Babylon as punishment for their sins. 
After spending some time there, we got our things ready and left for Jerusalem. 
His disciples asked him, “Where in this desert can anyone find enough food to feed all these people?” 
Praise him, highest heavens, : and the waters above the sky. 
We have, then, my brothers and sisters, complete freedom to go into the Most Holy Place by means of the death of Jesus. 
“The Mighty One is God! He is the LORD! The Mighty One is God! He is the LORD! He knows why we did this, and we want you to know too! If we rebelled and did not keep faith with the LORD, do not let us live any longer! 
In the third year of the reign of King Asa of Judah, Baasha son of Ahijah became king of all Israel, and he ruled in Tirzah for 24 years. 
Don't allow yourself to be dominated by someone who is stupid or show partiality to influential people. 
We answered, ‘We have a father who is old and a younger brother, born to him in his old age. The boy's brother is dead, and he is the only one of his mother's children still alive; his father loves him very much.’ 
they are about to go to the world of the dead. 
When the people of Jabesh in Gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul, 
Why, God does not trust even his angels; : even they are not pure in his sight. 
Isaac was now old and had become blind. He sent for his elder son Esau and said to him, “My son!” : “Yes,” he answered. 
Eglon joined the Ammonites and the Amalekites; they defeated Israel and captured Jericho, the city of palm trees. 
Open to me the gates of the Temple; : I will go in and give thanks to the LORD! 
Peter said to them, “Each one of you must turn away from your sins and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, so that your sins will be forgiven; and you will receive God's gift, the Holy Spirit. 
to resist him. They said, “Uzziah! You have no right to burn incense to the LORD. Only the priests who are descended from Aaron have been consecrated to do this. Leave this holy place. You have offended the LORD God, and you no longer have his blessing.” 
From morning till night they jeer at me. 
Keep on imitating me, my brothers and sisters. Pay attention to those who follow the right example that we have set for you. 
The southern border will extend from the wilderness of Zin along the border of Edom. It will begin on the east at the southern end of the Dead Sea. 
“Make two trumpets of hammered silver to use for calling the people together and for breaking camp. 
Hanun seized David's messengers, shaved off one side of their beards, cut off their clothes at the hips, and sent them away. 
When a legal dispute arises, the priests are to decide the case according to my laws. They are to keep the religious festivals according to my rules and regulations, and they are to keep the Sabbaths holy. 
Jonathan answered, “What a terrible thing my father has done to our people! See how much better I feel because I ate some honey! 
It is up to us to decide the case. 
Beauty in a woman without good judgement is like a gold ring in a pig's snout. 
Then Felix, who was well informed about the Way, brought the hearing to a close. “When Lysias the commander arrives,” he told them, “I will decide your case.” 
I bring him all my complaints; : I tell him all my troubles. 
For the body itself is not made up of only one part, but of many parts. 
Some of your own direct descendants will be taken away and made eunuchs to serve in the palace of the king of Babylonia.” 
The Ephraimites, armed with bows and arrows, : ran away on the day of battle. 
The sons of Leah were Reuben (Jacob's eldest son), Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun. 
That message from the LORD against Baasha and his family was given by the prophet Jehu because of the sins that Baasha committed against the LORD. He aroused the LORD's anger not only because of the evil he did, just as King Jeroboam had done before him, but also because he killed all Jeroboam's family. 
But they were opposed by the magician Elymas (that is his name in Greek), who tried to turn the governor away from the faith. 
Jezreel, Jokdeam, Zanoah, 
You will wither like a dying oak, like a garden that no one waters. 
You liars, what will God do to you? : How will he punish you? 
Wisdom is more valuable than jewels; nothing you could want can compare with it. 
The number of people who died was 14,700, not counting those who died in Korah's rebellion. 
(His disciples had gone into town to buy food.) 
The total number of the Israelite men was 601,730. 
my group included the following priests, blowing trumpets: Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah, and Hananiah; 
If you obey all the laws which the LORD gave to Moses for Israel, you will be successful. Be determined and confident, and don't let anything make you afraid. 
Rabbith, Kishion, Ebez, 
Neco made Joahaz' brother Eliakim king of Judah and changed his name to Jehoiakim. Joahaz was taken to Egypt by Neco. 
I wait for you to save me, LORD, : and I do what you command. 
When the LORD's angel was about to destroy Jerusalem, the LORD changed his mind about punishing the people and said to the angel who was killing them, “Stop! That's enough!” The angel was by the threshing place of Araunah, a Jebusite. 
They will be carried away as by the wind, and they will be ashamed of their pagan sacrifices.
Moses said to him, “As soon as I go out of the city, I will lift up my hands in prayer to the LORD. The thunder will stop, and there will be no more hail, so that you may know that the earth belongs to the LORD. 
When I go out into the fields, : I see the bodies of men killed in war; : when I go into the towns, : I see people starving to death. : Prophets and priests carry on their work, : but they don't know what they are doing.” 
I in them and you in me, so that they may be completely one, in order that the world may know that you sent me and that you love them as you love me. 
These are holy matters, and if you treat them in a holy manner, you yourselves will be considered holy. If you have learnt this lesson, you will be able to defend yourselves at the Judgement. 
If your father notices that I am not at table, tell him that I begged your permission to hurry home to Bethlehem, since it's the time for the annual sacrifice there for my whole family. 
Workers may or may not have enough to eat, but at least they can get a good night's sleep. The rich, however, have so much that they stay awake worrying. 
You can be sure that the LORD is not giving you this fertile land because you deserve it. No, you are a stubborn people. 
Some of these men from the tribe of Gad were senior officers in command of a thousand men, and others were junior officers in command of a hundred. 
But you would not listen or pay any attention. You would not give up your evil practice of sacrificing to other gods. 
He entrusted the commandments to Aaron's keeping and gave him the authority to make legal decisions and to teach Israel the Law. 
“Now then,” Jotham continued, “were you really honest and sincere when you made Abimelech king? Did you respect Gideon's memory and treat his family properly, as his actions deserved? 
I will rescue you from the power of wicked and violent people. I, the LORD, have spoken.”
We are sick at our very hearts : and can hardly see through our tears, 
After this, Joshua and his army went on from Makkedah to Libnah and attacked it. 
But we are judged and punished by the Lord, so that we shall not be condemned together with the world. 
For the scripture says, “You will be a priest for ever, in the priestly order of Melchizedek.”  
If your law had not been the source of my joy, : I would have died from my sufferings. 
After that, the king gave a banquet for all the people in the capital city of Susa, rich and poor alike. It lasted a whole week and was held in the gardens of the royal palace. 
They are proud and rebellious; : they stubbornly hold up their shields : and rush to fight against God. 
They are for you, who through faith are kept safe by God's power for the salvation which is ready to be revealed at the end of time. 
Their roots and branches are withered and dry. 
to give the following instructions to the people of Israel. Any men or women who make a special vow to become Nazirites and dedicate themselves to the LORD  
Priests must not drink any wine before going into the inner courtyard. 
He threw his arms round his brother Benjamin and began to cry; Benjamin also cried as he hugged him. 
This is what the Sovereign LORD is saying: “The city of murderers is doomed! I myself will pile up the firewood. 
The LORD will put your enemies in your power and make them panic until they are destroyed. 
“All right,” the LORD said to Satan, “everything he has is in your power, but you must not hurt Job himself.” So Satan left. 
No temporary resident or hired worker may eat it. 
As the LORD strikes them again and again, his people will keep time with the music of drums and harps. God himself will fight against the Assyrians. 
Don't be controlled by your lust; keep your passions in check. 
People will live in Judah and in all its towns, and there will be farmers, and shepherds with their flocks. 
The LORD gave Israel victory over the army of Benjamin. The Israelites killed 25,100 of the enemy that day, 
A reliable witness always tells the truth, but an unreliable one tells nothing but lies. 
But the man went away and began to spread the news everywhere. Indeed, he talked so much that Jesus could not go into a town publicly. Instead, he stayed out in lonely places, and people came to him from everywhere.
your people made their home there; : in your goodness you provided for the poor. 
The next morning, at the time of the regular morning sacrifice, water came flowing from the direction of Edom, and covered the ground. 
We know that God, who raised the Lord Jesus to life, will also raise us up with Jesus and take us, together with you, into his presence. 
Jeriah was the leader of the descendants of Hebron. In the fortieth year that David was king, an investigation was made of the family line of Hebron's descendants, and outstanding soldiers belonging to this family were found living at Jazer in the territory of Gilead. 
These offerings are to be: gold, silver, and bronze; 
and no longer hold on to Jewish legends and to human commandments which come from people who have rejected the truth. 
They all came together and joined forces to fight against Joshua and the Israelites. 
The priest shall examine the sore again on the seventh day, and if it has not spread and there are no yellowish hairs in it and it does not seem to be deeper than the surrounding skin, 
Josiah desecrated the altars that King Solomon had built east of Jerusalem, south of the Mount of Olives, for the worship of disgusting idols — Astarte the goddess of Sidon, Chemosh the god of Moab, and Molech the god of Ammon. 
Be tolerant with one another and forgive one another whenever any of you has a complaint against someone else. You must forgive one another just as the Lord has forgiven you. 
Peter stayed on in Joppa for many days with a tanner of leather named Simon.
The first covenant had rules for worship and an earthly place for worship as well. 
Then take the anointing oil, pour it on his head, and anoint him. 
Elisha turned round, glared at them, and cursed them in the name of the LORD. Then two she-bears came out of the woods and tore 42 of the boys to pieces. 
The men who went with me, however, made our people afraid. But I faithfully obeyed the LORD my God. 
Are your miracles seen in that place of darkness : or your goodness in the land of the forgotten? 
Then they cried to the LORD for help and said, ‘We have sinned, because we turned away from you, LORD, and worshipped the idols of Baal and Astarte. Rescue us from our enemies, and we will worship you!’ 
The Hall of Columns was 22 metres long and 13.5 metres wide. It had a covered porch, supported by columns. 
So the Pharisees and the chief priests met with the Council and said, “What shall we do? Look at all the miracles this man is performing! 
Throughout the territory of the Northern Kingdom he smashed the altars and the symbols of Asherah, ground the idols to dust, and broke in pieces all the incense altars. Then he returned to Jerusalem. 
I humble myself by fasting, : and people insult me; 
In this way I will show all the nations that I am great and that I am holy. They will know then that I am the LORD.”
But after I am raised to life, I will go to Galilee ahead of you.” 
We hoped for peace and a time of healing, but it was no use; terror came instead. 
God answered Leah's prayer, and she became pregnant and bore Jacob a fifth son. 
All four wheels were alike; each one shone like a precious stone, and each had another wheel intersecting it at right angles, 
The chief priests and the teachers of the Law were afraid of the people, and so they were trying to find a way of putting Jesus to death secretly. 
“A healthy tree does not bear bad fruit, nor does a poor tree bear good fruit.  
Don't get a reputation for being a gossip, and don't tell tales that will hurt people. Just as thieves will suffer disgrace, so liars will suffer severe condemnation. 
The soldiers led Jesus away, and as they were going, they met a man from Cyrene named Simon who was coming into the city from the country. They seized him, put the cross on him, and made him carry it behind Jesus. 
King David organized the descendants of Aaron into groups according to their duties. He was assisted in this by Zadok, a descendant of Eleazar, and by Ahimelech, a descendant of Ithamar. 
because you have always been my help. : In the shadow of your wings I sing for joy. 
But the people of Israel said to the LORD, “We have sinned. Do whatever you like, but please, save us today.” 
He will make good appear evil and find fault with the noblest actions. 
I have decided that I will bring them out of Egypt, where they are being treated cruelly, and will take them to a rich and fertile land — the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. 
The ground opened and swallowed them, and they died with Korah and his followers when fire destroyed 250 men; they became a warning to the people. 
An enemy will stay with you for a while, but not when trouble comes. 
Then call the doctor — for the Lord created him — and keep him at your side; you need him. 
So I prayed, “LORD, hear what I am saying and listen to what my enemies are saying about me. 
So Moses made a bronze snake and put it on a pole. Anyone who had been bitten would look at the bronze snake and be healed. 
Micaiah went on: “Now listen to what the LORD says! I saw the LORD sitting on his throne in heaven, with all his angels standing beside him. 
Go away, stranger! I've got an important guest! My brother is coming to visit, and I need the room!” 
You cannot stand the sight of the proud; : you hate all wicked people. 
The Levite Jeshua and his sons and relatives, and Kadmiel and his sons (the clan of Hodaviah) joined together in taking charge of the rebuilding of the Temple. (They were helped by the Levites of the clan of Henadad.) 
In the eighteenth year of the reign of King Jeroboam of Israel, Abijah became king of Judah, 
he will judge the poor fairly : and defend the rights of the helpless. : At his command the people will be punished, : and evil persons will die. 
Proclaim his glory in grateful praise! To the music of the harp, sing this song
Some people from Ziph went to Saul at Gibeah and said, “David is hiding in our territory at Horesh on Mount Hachilah, in the southern part of the Judean wilderness. 
At every Passover Festival the Roman governor was in the habit of setting free any one prisoner the crowd asked for. 
and burnt the sweet-smelling incense, just as the LORD had commanded. 
Suddenly he cried out to his father, “My head hurts! My head hurts!” : “Carry the boy to his mother,” the father said to a servant. 
They made a gold bull calf at Sinai : and worshipped that idol; 
He instructed them to say to Nabal: “David sends you greetings, my friend, with his best wishes for you, your family, and all that is yours. 
None of the stones from your ruins will ever be used again for building. You will be like a desert for ever. I, the LORD, have spoken. 
the shouts of gladness and joy and the happy sounds of wedding feasts. You will hear people sing as they bring thankofferings to my Temple; they will say, : ‘Give thanks to the LORD Almighty, : because he is good : and his love is eternal.’ : I will make this land as prosperous as it was before. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
But the Lord will always be merciful and keep all his promises. He will never destroy the descendants of David, whom he chose and who loved him. So, for Israel's sake he allowed David's family to survive. 
But even if he doesn't, Your Majesty may be sure that we will not worship your god, and we will not bow down to the gold statue that you have set up.” 
The sky is no limit for God, : but it lies beyond your reach. : God knows the world of the dead, : but you do not know it. 
But some of them said, “He gave sight to the blind man, didn't he? Could he not have kept Lazarus from dying?” 
“My people will follow me when I roar like a lion at their enemies. They will hurry to me from the west. 
After that, he lived another 500 years and had other children. 
This is God's message about the animals of the southern desert: “The ambassadors travel through dangerous country, where lions live and where there are poisonous snakes and flying dragons. They load their donkeys and camels with expensive gifts for a nation that cannot give them any help. 
they also brought 600 bulls and 3,000 sheep as sacrifices for the people to eat. 
But David answered, “Your father knows very well how much you like me, and he has decided not to let you know what he plans to do, because you would be deeply hurt. I swear to you by the living LORD that I am only a step away from death!” 
the following message from the LORD: “I am going to punish Jerusalem and all its people with the curses written in the book that was read to the king. 
If you make an altar of stone for me, do not build it out of cut stones, because when you use a chisel on stones, you make them unfit for my use. 
So after nine months and twenty days they returned to Jerusalem, having travelled through the whole country. 
The earth trembles and shakes because the LORD is carrying out his plan to make Babylonia a desert, where no one lives. 
Satan replied, “Would Job worship you if he got nothing out of it? 
For I have an obligation to all peoples, to the civilized and to the savage, to the educated and to the ignorant. 
Then if someone asks him, ‘What are those wounds on your chest?’ he will answer, ‘I got them at a friend's house.’ ” 
There the officer found a ship from Alexandria that was going to sail for Italy, so he put us aboard. 
“Go to the Abarim Mountains in the land of Moab opposite the city of Jericho; climb Mount Nebo and look at the land of Canaan that I am about to give the people of Israel. 
Suppose they say, “Come on; let's find someone to kill! Let's attack some innocent people for the fun of it! 
So David consulted the LORD again, and the LORD said to him, “Go and attack Keilah, because I will give you victory over the Philistines.” 
Set your hearts, then, on the more important gifts. : Best of all, however, is the following way.
But you must not ask me what I am going to do; I will explain it to you when it is all over.” 
There is a river that brings joy to the city of God, : to the sacred house of the Most High. 
When King Hezekiah and his officials saw how much had been given, they praised the LORD and praised his people Israel. 
the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonam, the son of Eliakim, 
Each day before sunset pay them for that day's work; they need the money and have counted on getting it. If you do not pay them, they will cry out against you to the LORD, and you will be guilty of sin. 
In another vision the LORD showed me the High Priest Joshua standing before the angel of the LORD. And there beside Joshua stood Satan, ready to bring an accusation against him. 
and thorn bushes and briars are growing on my people's land. Weep for all the houses where people were happy and for the city that was full of life. 
A person with a warped mind causes trouble, but an experienced person knows how to pay it back. 
They arrived at Jairus' house, where Jesus saw the confusion and heard all the loud crying and wailing. 
He also tried to defile the Temple, and we arrested him.  
Jacob said to Joseph, “I am ready to die, now that I have seen you and know that you are still alive.” 
I have been calling you, inviting you to come, but you would not listen. You paid no attention to me. 
Food, however, will not improve our relations with God; we shall not lose anything if we do not eat, nor shall we gain anything if we do eat. 
Don't put much hope in their future or expect them to live a long time. One child who does the Lord's will is better than a thousand who do not. It is better to go to your grave with no children at all than to have children who are godless. 
Jesus knew what they were saying, so he asked them, “Why are you discussing about not having any bread? Don't you know or understand yet? Are your minds so dull?  
But a woman threw a millstone down on his head and fractured his skull. 
He also repaired the altar where the LORD was worshipped, and he sacrificed fellowship offerings and thanksgiving offerings on it. He commanded all the people of Judah to worship the LORD, the God of Israel. 
For our love for God means that we obey his commands. And his commands are not too hard for us, 
The other one, however, rebuked him, saying, “Don't you fear God? You received the same sentence he did. 
that I, the LORD God of Israel, have placed a curse on everyone who does not obey the terms of this covenant. 
It is the same with you; when you have done all you have been told to do, say, ‘We are ordinary servants; we have only done our duty.’ ” 
It is better to meet a mother bear robbed of her cubs than to meet some fool busy with a stupid project. 
I will do this to my people because they have sinned against me and have stirred up my anger from the time their ancestors came out of Egypt to this day.” 
by order of the leaders of the people. If anyone failed to come within three days, all his property would be confiscated, and he would lose his right to be a member of the community. 
They have children and grandchildren, : and live to watch them all grow up. 
Their land is full of silver and gold, and there is no end to their treasures. Their land is full of horses, and there is no end to their chariots. 
Then the 24 elders who sit on their thrones in front of God threw themselves face downwards and worshipped God, 
It is to be square, 45 centimetres long and 45 centimetres wide, and it is to be ninety centimetres high. Its projections at the four corners are to form one piece with it. 
And yet, I am the God who forgives your sins, : and I do this because of who I am. : I will not hold your sins against you. 
Obey the LORD and serve him faithfully with all your heart. Remember the great things he has done for you. 
“I see you are a prophet, sir,” the woman said. 
then we who are living at that time will be gathered up along with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so we will always be with the Lord. 
Then everyone else will hear what happened; they will be afraid, and no one will ever again do such an evil thing. 
Let us be bold, then, and say: : “The Lord is my helper, : I will not be afraid. : What can anyone do to me?” 
Moses then returned to the LORD and said, “These people have committed a terrible sin. They have made a god out of gold and worshipped it. 
They put on sackcloth — they and their wives, their children, their livestock, and every resident foreigner, every slave and hired labourer. 
How great you are, Sovereign LORD! There is none like you; we have always known that you alone are God. 
Moses obeyed and from the wilderness of Paran he sent out leaders, as follows: :  :  : Reuben : Shammua son of Zaccur : Simeon : Shaphat son of Hori : Judah : Caleb son of Jephunneh : Issachar : Igal son of Joseph : Ephraim : Hoshea son of Nun : Benjamin : Palti son of Raphu : Zebulun : Gaddiel son of Sodi : Manasseh : Gaddi son of Susi : Dan : Ammiel son of Gemalli : Asher : Sethur son of Michael : Naphtali : Nahbi son of Vophsi : Gad : Geuel son of Machi 
When David was told that Ahithophel had joined Absalom's rebellion, he prayed, “Please, LORD, turn Ahithophel's advice into nonsense!” 
“What do you see?” he asked. : “A lampstand made of gold,” I answered. “At the top is a bowl for the oil. On the lampstand are seven lamps, each one with places for seven wicks. 
While I was with them, I kept them safe by the power of your name, the name you gave me.  I protected them, and not one of them was lost, except the man who was bound to be lost — so that the scripture might come true.  
I will turn against you, so that you will be defeated, and those who hate you will rule over you; you will be so terrified that you will run when no one is chasing you. 
This happened at the LORD's command, in order to banish the people of Judah from his sight because of all the sins that King Manasseh had committed, 
The LORD said to me, 
But the LORD loved you and wanted to keep the promise that he made to your ancestors. That is why he saved you by his great might and set you free from slavery to the king of Egypt. 
God said to Noah, 
But I will make the king stubborn, and he will not listen to you, no matter how many terrifying things I do in Egypt. 
He said to me, “Mortal man, can these bones come back to life?” : I replied, “Sovereign LORD, only you can answer that!” 
If a man has intercourse with a woman during her monthly period, both of them are to be driven out of the community, because they have broken the regulations about ritual uncleanness. 
And so the people of Judah were victorious over Israel, because they relied on the LORD, the God of their ancestors. 
Almighty God has pierced me with arrows, : and their poison spreads through my body. : God has lined up his terrors against me. 
Let the king have sixty queens, eighty concubines, : young women without number! 
The LORD told Moses 
So Jesus called a child, made him stand in front of them, 
They asked, and he sent quails; : he gave them food from heaven to satisfy them. 
Never forget that you were slaves in Egypt; that is why I have given you this command.
Make an offering to the LORD. Everyone who wishes to do so is to bring an offering of gold, silver, or bronze; 
Do not make yourselves unclean by any of these acts, for that is how the pagans made themselves unclean, those pagans who lived in the land before you and whom the LORD is driving out so that you can go in. 
A murderer must be put to death. He cannot escape this penalty by the payment of money. 
I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep, and I will find them a place to rest. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken. 
His royal power will continue to grow; : his kingdom will always be at peace. : He will rule as King David's successor, : basing his power on right and justice, : from now until the end of time. : The LORD Almighty is determined to do all this. 
You answer us by giving us victory : and you do wonderful things to save us. : People all over the world : and across the distant seas trust in you. 
I have let the people borrow money and corn from me, and so have my companions and the people who work for me. Now let's give up all our claims to repayment. 
You deserve our praise, O Lord; : you were merciful to this young couple, : the only children of their parents. : Now, grant them your mercy and protection. : Let them live out their lives in happiness and love.” 
“All right,” they said, “we are only going to tie you up and hand you over to them. We won't kill you.” So they tied him up with two new ropes and brought him back from the cliff. 
Suddenly there was a violent earthquake; an angel of the Lord came down from heaven, rolled the stone away, and sat on it. 
Now I will remind you of the works of the Lord : and describe the things I have seen. : The words of the Lord brought his works into being, : and the whole creation obeys his commands. 
The High Priest tore his robes and said, “We don't need any more witnesses! 
The others do not proclaim Christ sincerely, but from a spirit of selfish ambition; they think that they will make more trouble for me while I am in prison. 
A person's life has only a limited number of days, but the life of Israel cannot be measured in days at all. 
The sons of Rachel were Joseph and Benjamin. 
Such a man may eat the food offered to me, both the holy food offering and the very holy food offering, 
The people of Dibon climb the hill to weep at the shrine. The people of Moab wail in grief over the cities of Nebo and Medeba; they have shaved their heads and their beards in grief. 
When the land is divided to give each tribe a share, one part is to be dedicated to the LORD. It is to be 12.5 kilometres long by ten kilometres wide. The entire area will be holy. 
“With our words we get what we want. : We will say what we wish, : and no one can stop us.” 
I have heard the wild, boastful way you have talked against me.” 
But I devoted myself to knowledge and study; I was determined to find wisdom and the answers to my questions, and to learn how wicked and foolish stupidity is. 
Other people are like the seeds that fall on rocky ground. As soon as they hear the message, they receive it gladly.  
So the Jews followed Mordecai's instructions, and the celebration became an annual custom. 
“The priest will take the basket from you and place it before the altar of the LORD your God. 
The fields are covered with sheep; : the valleys are full of wheat. : Everything shouts and sings for joy.
Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. Those who believe in me will live, even though they die;  
Solomon loved the LORD and followed the instructions of his father David, but he also slaughtered animals and offered them as sacrifices on various altars. 
At dawn the king got up and hurried to the pit. 
Give the signal to attack Babylon's walls. Strengthen the guard! Post the sentries! Place men in ambush!” : The LORD has done what he said he would do to the people of Babylonia. 
In those days, when the boy Samuel was serving the LORD under the direction of Eli, there were very few messages from the LORD, and visions from him were quite rare. 
Alexander the metalworker did me much harm; the Lord will reward him according to what he has done. 
It is the same way now: there is a small number left of those whom God has chosen because of his grace. 
Give me the Wisdom that sits beside your throne; give me a place among your children. 
The day is near, the day when the LORD will act, : A day of clouds and trouble for the nations. 
Anyone who is determined to do right will live, but anyone who insists on doing wrong will die. 
The LORD will make us prosperous, : and our land will produce rich harvests. 
I was once brought face to face with death; 
Each of them had four faces, four wings, and what looked like a human hand under each wing. 
Just say ‘Yes’ or ‘No’ — anything else you say comes from the Evil One. 
Then I wanted to know more about the fourth beast, which was not like any of the others — the terrifying beast which crushed its victims with its bronze claws and iron teeth and then trampled on them. 
Paul gathered up a bundle of sticks and was putting them on the fire when a snake came out on account of the heat and fastened itself to his hand. 
I will use my sword against everyone from south to north. 
Keep watch and pray that you will not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.” 
In either case, her first husband is not to marry her again; he is to consider her defiled. If he married her again, it would be offensive to the LORD. You are not to commit such a terrible sin in the land that the LORD your God is giving you. 
The children of ungodly people will not leave large families; they are like plants trying to take root on rock, 
those who say that they remain in union with God should live just as Jesus Christ did. 
No one can see his own errors; : deliver me, LORD, from hidden faults! 
“How can we torment him?” : You looked for some excuse to attack me. 
so that the whole world may know your will; : so that all nations may know your salvation. 
The LORD says, “From Migdol in the north to Aswan in the south, all Egypt's defenders will be killed in battle. Egypt's proud army will be destroyed. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken. 
Nothing else is as valuable; there is no way of putting a price on it. 
Job, we have learnt this by long study. : It is true, so now accept it.
All Israel broke your laws and refused to listen to what you said. We sinned against you, and so you brought on us the curses that are written in the Law of Moses, your servant. 
David and his men settled there in Gath with their families. David had his two wives with him, Ahinoam from Jezreel, and Abigail, Nabal's widow, from Carmel. 
then let my crops be destroyed, : or let others eat the food I grow. 
Save me, O God! :   LORD, help me now! 
I may be able to speak the languages of human beings and even of angels, but if I have no love, my speech is no more than a noisy gong or a clanging bell. 
As soon as Paul had this vision, we got ready to leave for Macedonia, because we decided that God had called us to preach the Good News to the people there. 
Offer the proper grain offering of flour mixed with olive oil: three kilogrammes of flour with the bull, two kilogrammes with the ram, 
What do we gain from all our work? 
From then on Judas was looking for a good chance to hand Jesus over to them. 
Listen to me, you men who understand! : Will Almighty God do what is wrong? 
Clap your hands for joy, all peoples! : Praise God with loud songs! 
You will put them in slippery places : and make them fall to destruction! 
He ordered them to bring in Queen Vashti, wearing her royal crown. The queen was a beautiful woman, and the king wanted to show off her beauty to the officials and all his guests. 
So they motioned to their partners in the other boat to come and help them. They came and filled both boats so full of fish that the boats were about to sink. 
There he broke the arrows of the enemy, : their shields and swords, yes, all their weapons. 
I have seen a horrible thing in Israel: my people have defiled themselves by worshipping idols. 
Members of the clan of Kohath were responsible for preparing the sacred bread for the Temple every Sabbath. 
When the king had issued his new proclamation and many young women were being brought to Susa, Esther was among them. She too was put in the royal palace in the care of Hegai, who had charge of the harem. 
“Why is it that your disciples disobey the teaching handed down by our ancestors? They don't wash their hands in the proper way before they eat!” 
The priest shall take this fat and burn it on the altar used for the burnt offerings, just as he does with the fat from the animal killed for the fellowship offering. 
Then the king ordered Ebedmelech to take with him three men and to pull me out of the well before I died. 
Give me life, so that I may praise you; : may your instructions help me. 
“What, then, shall I do with Jesus called the Messiah?” Pilate asked them. : “Crucify him!” they all answered. 
Give thanks to the LORD, because he is good, : and his love is eternal.
You sold your own people for a small price : as though they had little value. 
The command that Christ has given us is this: all who love God must love their brother or sister also.
No one hides what he is doing if he wants to be well known. Since you are doing these things, let the whole world know about you!” 
Then Joshua said to the people, “Come here and listen to what the LORD your God has to say. 
Then I remembered what the Lord had said: ‘John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.’  
Will you tie him up like a pet bird, : like something to amuse your servant women? 
Happy are those who work for peace; :   God will call them his children! 
The nations have heard, and they tremble with fear; : the Philistines are seized with terror. 
The captain found him there and said to him, “What are you doing asleep? Get up and pray to your god for help. Maybe he will feel sorry for us and spare our lives.” 
Trust in the LORD, you priests of God. : He helps you and protects you. 
For a long time the judge refused to act, but at last he said to himself, ‘Even though I don't fear God or respect people,  
If God gives a man wealth and property and lets him enjoy them, he should be grateful and enjoy what he has worked for. It is a gift from God. 
A man who has no use for wisdom or education has a miserable life in store for him. He has nothing to hope for. His labours are useless, and he will never accomplish anything worth while. 
First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, because the whole world is hearing about your faith. 
Delilah then lulled him to sleep, took his seven locks of hair, and wove them into the loom. She made it tight with a peg and shouted, “Samson! The Philistines are coming!” But he woke up and pulled his hair loose from the loom. 
“Don't be stubborn, as your ancestors were at Meribah, : as they were that day in the desert at Massah. 
The Sovereign LORD Almighty was calling you then to weep and mourn, to shave your heads and wear sackcloth. 
I asked also for a letter to Asaph, keeper of the royal forests, instructing him to supply me with timber for the gates of the fort that guards the Temple, for the city walls, and for the house I was to live in. The emperor gave me all I asked for, because God was with me. 
Do I eat the flesh of bulls : or drink the blood of goats? 
Another descendant of Saul was Jonathan's son Mephibosheth, who was five years old when Saul and Jonathan were killed. When the news about their death came from the city of Jezreel, his nurse picked him up and fled; but she was in such a hurry that she dropped him, and he became crippled. 
There was great commotion in the Assyrian camp as news of Judith's arrival spread from tent to tent. While she stood outside the tent of Holofernes waiting to be presented to him, many Assyrian soldiers came and stood round her. 
They took him to Caesarea, delivered the letter to the governor, and handed Paul over to him. 
The LORD says to the people of Judah and Jerusalem, “Plough up your unploughed fields; do not sow your seeds among thorns. 
She fell at Elisha's feet, with her face touching the ground; then she took her son and left. 
I have noticed that in this world a serious injustice is done. 
In the twelfth year of King Xerxes' rule, in the first month, the month of Nisan, Haman ordered the lots to be cast (“purim”, they were called) to find out the right day and month to carry out his plot. The thirteenth day of the twelfth month, the month of Adar, was decided on. 
Order the horse that your rode with royal ornament on its head. 
May their names be erased from the book of the living; : may they not be included in the list of your people. 
“If you happen to find a bird's nest in a tree or on the ground with the mother bird sitting either on the eggs or with her young, you are not to take the mother bird. 
Then the king called for his wise men and magicians, and by their magic they did the same thing. 
One of them asked the angel who was standing further upstream, “How long will it be until these amazing events come to an end?” 
When the prophet Elisha heard what had happened, he sent word to the king: “Why are you so upset? Send the man to me, and I'll show him that there is a prophet in Israel!” 
Pour out your anger on them; : let your indignation overtake them. 
Can you discover the limits and bounds : of the greatness and power of God? 
Praise the LORD! : How wonderfully he showed his love for me : when I was surrounded and attacked! 
When the people saw that the king would not listen to them, they shouted, “Down with David and his family! What have they ever done for us? People of Israel, let's go home! Let Rehoboam look out for himself!” : So the people of Israel rebelled, 
The LORD Almighty said, : “Think about what is happening! : Call for the mourners to come, : for the women who sing funeral songs.” 
LORD, there is none like you; we have always known that you alone are God. 
Everyone who was there joined in worship, and the singing and the rest of the music continued until all the sacrifices had been burnt. 
and the angel called to him, “Grab that fish! Don't let it get away.” : Then Tobias grabbed the fish and dragged it up on the bank. 
He is the disciple who spoke of these things, the one who also wrote them down; and we know that what he said is true. 
Jesus heard them and answered, “People who are well do not need a doctor, but only those who are sick.  
His love for us is strong : and his faithfulness is eternal. : Praise the LORD!
You are like those streams to me, : you see my fate and draw back in fear. 
The LORD promised David that he would take the kingdom away from Saul and his descendants and would make David king of both Israel and Judah, from one end of the country to the other. Now may God strike me dead if I don't make this come true!” 
The southern boundary of the land assigned to the descendants of Joseph started from the Jordan near Jericho, at a point east of the springs of Jericho, and went into the desert. It went from Jericho up into the hill country as far as Bethel. 
Then the disciples came to Jesus in private and asked him, “Why couldn't we drive the demon out?” 
My child, keep your self-respect, but remain modest. Value yourself at your true worth. 
He speaks, and thunder twists the earth in pain; : the mountains are shaken by his strength. : Whenever he wishes, the south wind blows, : whirlwinds come, and windstorms from the north. : He sends the snow fluttering down like birds, : like locusts alighting on the ground. 
Then he said, “Here I am, O God, to do your will.” So God does away with all the old sacrifices and puts the sacrifice of Christ in their place. 
God told me to write down in a book what the people are like, so that there would be a permanent record of how evil they are. 
Better to be poor and fear the LORD than to be rich and in trouble. 
Everyone will hate you because of me. But whoever holds out to the end will be saved.  
It was the tent of the god Molech that you carried, : and the image of Rephan, your star god; : they were idols that you had made to worship. : And so I will send you into exile beyond Babylon.’ 
The boy Samuel continued to grow and to gain favour both with the LORD and with people. 
The LORD said to my lord, : “Sit here at my right : until I put your enemies under your feet.” 
and so no disaster will strike you, : no violence will come near your home. 
Even with these words the apostles could hardly keep the crowd from offering a sacrifice to them. 
“ ‘Do not desire another man's wife; do not desire his house, his land, his slaves, his cattle, his donkeys, or anything else that he owns.’ 
But now I am treating the survivors of this nation differently. 
After spending forty days and nights without food, Jesus was hungry. 
and said, “Your Majesty, please forget the wrong I did that day you left Jerusalem. Don't hold it against me or think about it any more. 
I will sing you a new song, O God; : I will play the harp and sing to you. 
You are to observe this rule for all time to come. The person who sprinkles the water for purification must also wash his clothes; anyone who touches the water remains ritually unclean until evening. 
When I am afraid, O LORD Almighty, : I put my trust in you. 
The Pharisees went off and made a plan to trap Jesus with questions. 
and when he swears by the Temple, he is swearing by it and by God, who lives there;  
Joab went, and she asked, “Are you Joab?” : “Yes, I am,” he answered. : “Listen to me, sir,” she said. : “I'm listening,” he answered. 
The kings of the earth prepared themselves, : and the rulers met together : against the Lord and his Messiah.’ 
at Machpelah, east of Mamre, in the land of Canaan. Abraham bought this cave and field from Ephron for a burial ground. 
People will speak of your mighty deeds, : and I will proclaim your greatness. 
“And now the LORD has kept his promise. I have succeeded my father as king of Israel, and I have built the Temple for the worship of the LORD God of Israel. 
My men and I will approach the city. When the men of Ai come out against us, we will turn and run, just as we did the first time. 
You know the commandments: ‘Do not commit adultery; do not commit murder; do not steal; do not accuse anyone falsely; respect your father and your mother.’ ” 
There was no one in Israel as famous for his good looks as Absalom; he had no defect from head to foot. 
And I saw the Holy City, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared and ready, like a bride dressed to meet her husband. 
I could, of course, put my trust in such things. If anyone thinks they can trust in external ceremonies, I have even more reason to feel that way. 
Very early the next morning, they set out for the wedding feast. When Raphael and Gabael came to Raguel's house, they found Tobias at dinner. Tobias immediately got up and greeted Gabael. With tears in his eyes Gabael returned the greeting and added, “You are just like your honest and generous father. May the Lord in heaven bless you and your wife, your mother-in-law, and your father. Praise God! He has let me live to see my cousin Tobias, who looks so much like his father.”
The sound of the trumpet became louder and louder. Moses spoke, and God answered him with thunder. 
the lamp snuffers, the bowls, the dishes for incense, and the pans used for carrying live coals. All these objects were made of pure gold. The outer doors of the Temple and the doors to the Most Holy Place were overlaid with gold.
I will pour out your blood until it spreads over the mountains and fills the streams. 
Keep me from going the wrong way, : and in your goodness teach me your law. 
“As surely as I, the Sovereign LORD, am the living God, I warn you that in my anger I will rule over you with a strong hand, with all my power. 
Anyone or anything that touches the flesh of the animal will be harmed by the power of its holiness. If any article of clothing is spattered with the animal's blood, it must be washed in a holy place. 
The people who live there will sing praise; : they will shout for joy. : By my blessing they will increase in numbers; : my blessing will bring them honour. 
What the LORD did that day made the people of Israel consider Joshua a great man. They honoured him all his life, just as they had honoured Moses. 
She said, “God has given me a fine gift. Now my husband will accept me, because I have borne him six sons”; so she named him Zebulun.  
Everyone's hands will hang limp, and everyone's courage will fail. 
The LORD says to Israel, : “The wealth of Egypt and Ethiopia will be yours, : and the tall men of Seba will be your slaves; : they will follow you in chains. : They will bow down to you and confess, : ‘God is with you — he alone is God. 
(King Og was the last of the Rephaim. His coffin, made of stone, was four metres long and almost two metres wide according to standard measurements. It can still be seen in the Ammonite city of Rabbah.) 
Weak with thirst, the people of several cities went to a city where they hoped to find water, but there was not enough to drink. Still you did not come back to me. 
“When you build a new house, be sure to put a railing round the edge of the roof. Then you will not be responsible if someone falls off and is killed. 
the kidneys and the fat on them, and the best part of the liver. 
The Son of Man will die as the Scriptures say he will; but how terrible for that man who betrays the Son of Man! It would have been better for that man if he had never been born!” 
He went on to say, “Countries will fight each other; kingdoms will attack one another.  
The LORD had made them determined to fight the Israelites, so that they would be condemned to total destruction and all be killed without mercy. This was what the LORD had commanded Moses. 
I have looked for other answers but have found none. I found one man in a thousand that I could respect, but not one woman. 
And we are here to bring the Good News to you: what God promised our ancestors he would do, he has now done for us, who are their descendants, by raising Jesus to life. As it is written in the second Psalm: : ‘You are my Son; : today I have become your Father.’ 
“It was for this purpose that I went to Damascus with authority and orders from the chief priests. 
But Jesus did not trust himself to them, because he knew them all. 
Some time later Abraham learnt that Milcah had borne eight children to his brother Nahor
which he used when he raised Christ from death and seated him at his right side in the heavenly world. 
Make plates, cups, jars, and bowls to be used for the wine offerings. All of these are to be made of pure gold. 
“There is something else. You remember what Joab did to me by killing the two commanders of Israel's armies, Abner son of Ner and Amasa son of Jether. You remember how he murdered them in time of peace in revenge for deaths they had caused in time of war. He killed innocent men and now I bear the responsibility for what he did, and I suffer the consequences. 
Treat them with the greatest respect and love because of the work they do. Be at peace among yourselves. 
When Delilah realized that he had told her the truth, she sent a message to the Philistine kings and said, “Come back just once more. He has told me the truth.” Then they came and brought the money with them. 
Go west to the island of Cyprus, : and send someone eastwards to the land of Kedar. : You will see that nothing like this has ever happened before. 
but only the High Priest goes into the inner Tent, and he does so only once a year. He takes with him blood which he offers to God on behalf of himself and for the sins which the people have committed without knowing they were sinning. 
I will punish her for the times that she forgot me when she burnt incense to Baal and put on her jewellery to go chasing after her lovers. The LORD has spoken. 
Your knowledge of me is too deep; : it is beyond my understanding. 
But I trust in you, O LORD; : and you, O Lord my God, will answer me. 
We will not take possession of any property among them on the other side of the Jordan, because we have received our share here east of the Jordan.” 
LORD God of Israel, you are just, but you have let us survive. We confess our guilt to you; we have no right to come into your presence.”
When Jesus saw how much faith they had, he said to the man, “Your sins are forgiven, my friend.” 
By the things you have done you have taught your people that a person who is righteous must also be kind. You have given your people abundant hope by allowing them to repent of their sins. 
They went into the hill country as far as the Valley of Eshcol and explored it. 
He rules for ever by his might : and keeps his eyes on the nations. : Let no rebels rise against him. 
The city has no need of the sun or the moon to shine on it, because the glory of God shines on it, and the Lamb is its lamp. 
“Many nations will be troubled when I spread the news of your destruction through countries you never heard of. 
In this way people on earth have been set on the right path, have learnt what pleases you, and have been kept safe by Wisdom.”
“Be on your guard! Don't let yourselves become occupied with too much feasting and drinking and with the worries of this life, or that Day may suddenly catch you  
But David answered, “My brothers, you can't do this with what the LORD has given us! He kept us safe and gave us victory over the raiders. 
He then taught the people: “It is written in the Scriptures that God said, ‘My Temple will be called a house of prayer for the people of all nations.’ But you have turned it into a hideout for thieves!” 
His death is his own fault, because he paid no attention to the warning. If he had paid attention, he could have escaped. 
Rather be glad that you are sharing Christ's sufferings, so that you may be full of joy when his glory is revealed. 
While Jesus was in Jerusalem during the Passover Festival, many believed in him as they saw the miracles he performed. 
That is why Manasseh received ten shares in addition to Gilead and Bashan on the east side of the Jordan, 
In the grave wicked people stop their evil, : and tired workers find rest at last. 
Before you punished me, I used to go wrong, : but now I obey your word. 
I will rip off your scarves and let my people escape from your power once and for all. Then you will know that I am the LORD. 
The Roman commander ordered his men to take Paul into the fort, and he told them to whip him in order to find out why the Jews were screaming like this against him. 
Amaziah asked the prophet, “But what about all that silver I have already paid for them?” : The prophet replied, “The LORD can give you back more than that!” 
I go about in gloom, without any sunshine; : I stand up in public and plead for help. 
The Syrians realized that they had been defeated by the Israelites, so they brought troops from the Syrian states on the east side of the River Euphrates and placed them under the command of Shobach, commander of the army of King Hadadezer of Zobah. 
When that time comes, there will no longer be cold or frost,  
Then he defeated the Moabites. He made the prisoners lie down on the ground and put two out of every three of them to death. So the Moabites became his subjects and paid taxes to him. 
The Romans will come in ships and oppose him, and he will be frightened. : “Then he will turn back in a rage and try to destroy the religion of God's people. He will follow the advice of those who have abandoned that religion. 
And a voice came from heaven, “You are my own dear Son. I am pleased with you.” 
Do not stay away from me! : Trouble is near, : and there is no one to help. 
It is like this. A woman takes some yeast and mixes it with forty litres of flour until the whole batch of dough rises.” 
Nations and kings will care for you : As a mother nurses her child. : You will know that I, the LORD, have saved you, : That the mighty God of Israel sets you free. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “I am making you a watchman for the nation of Israel. You will pass on to them the warnings I give you. 
So Pilate said to him, “Don't you hear all these things they accuse you of?” 
LORD God of our ancestors Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, keep such devotion for ever strong in your people's hearts and keep them always faithful to you. 
I know that you always listen to me, but I say this for the sake of the people here, so that they will believe that you sent me.”  
The LORD is going to throw you out of this land; he is going to crush you until not one of you is left. The LORD has spoken. 
May mercy, peace, and love be yours in full measure. 
I will keep quiet, I will not say a word, : for you are the one who made me suffer like this. 
Then he placed the wood on the altar, cut the bull in pieces, and laid it on the wood. He said, “Fill four jars with water and pour it on the offering and the wood.” They did so, 
The gates lie buried in rubble, their bars smashed to pieces. : The king and the noblemen now are in exile. : The Law is no longer taught, and the prophets have no visions from the LORD. 
Their skill came from the Most High, and kings reward them for it. 
Abraham separated seven lambs from his flock, 
Because you were not there to carry it the first time, the LORD our God punished us for not worshipping him as we should have done.” 
At the sight of this, people feel stupid and senseless; : those who make idols are disillusioned, : because the gods they make are false and lifeless. 
Then I heard what sounded like a large crowd, like the sound of a roaring waterfall, like loud peals of thunder. I heard them say, “Praise God! For the Lord, our Almighty God, is King! 
I will defend this city and protect it, for the sake of my own honour and because of the promise I made to my servant David.’ ” 
Gideon made an idol from the gold and put it in his home town, Ophrah. All the Israelites abandoned God and went there to worship the idol. It was a trap for Gideon and his family. 
When the apostles met together with Jesus, they asked him, “Lord, will you at this time give the Kingdom back to Israel?” 
Samaria fell because the Israelites did not obey the LORD their God, but broke the covenant he had made with them and disobeyed all the laws given by Moses, the servant of the LORD. They would not listen and they would not obey. 
The LORD will show us his glory. We will live beside broad rivers and streams, but hostile ships will not sail on them.  
We were born by chance, and after life is over, we will be as if we had never been born at all. Our breath is no more than a puff of smoke; our mind is nothing more than a spark thrown off by the beating of our heart. 
Each year his mother would make a little robe and take it to him when she accompanied her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice. 
You know that we brought back to you from the land of Canaan the money we found in the top of our sacks. Why then should we steal silver or gold from your master's house? 
Your arrows are sharp, : they pierce the hearts of your enemies; : nations fall down at your feet. 
I am going to put a hook through your jaw and make the fish in your river stick fast to you. Then I will pull you up out of the Nile, with all the fish sticking to you. 
When the believers found out about this, they took Saul to Caesarea and sent him away to Tarsus. 
the city walls were broken through. Although the Babylonians were surrounding the city, all the soldiers escaped during the night. They left by way of the royal garden, went through the gateway connecting the two walls, and fled in the direction of the Jordan Valley. 
Each time Elkanah offered his sacrifice, he would give one share of the meat to Peninnah and one share to each of her children. 
His answer was, “Elijah is indeed coming first in order to get everything ready. Yet why do the Scriptures say that the Son of Man will suffer much and be rejected?  
For the next six days you are to eat bread prepared without yeast, and on the seventh day assemble to worship the LORD your God, and do no work on that day. 
Cows and bears will eat together, : and their calves and cubs will lie down in peace. : Lions will eat straw as cattle do. 
Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah, 
but the LORD was not willing to destroy the dynasty of David, because he had made a covenant with David and promised that his descendants would always continue to rule. 
In a vision God took me to the land of Israel and put me on a high mountain. I saw in front of me a group of buildings that looked like a city. 
yet they did not realize what was happening until the flood came and swept them all away. That is how it will be when the Son of Man comes.  
Righteous people are nothing but a nuisance, so let's look for chances to get rid of them. They are against what we do; they accuse us of breaking the Law of Moses and violating the traditions of our ancestors. 
The Levites went about calming the people and telling them not to be sad on such a holy day. 
It was towards evening when Joseph of Arimathea arrived. He was a respected member of the Council, who was waiting for the coming of the Kingdom of God. It was Preparation day (that is, the day before the Sabbath), so Joseph went boldly into the presence of Pilate and asked him for the body of Jesus. 
Aaron and his sons are to set up the lamp in the Tent of my presence outside the curtain which is in front of the Covenant Box. There in my presence it is to burn from evening until morning. This command is to be kept for ever by the Israelites and their descendants.
And the people of the Supreme God will receive royal power and keep it for ever and ever.” 
Bring disgrace on those who persecute me, but spare me, LORD. Fill them with terror, but do not terrify me. Bring disaster on them and break them to pieces. 
“If you have ears, then, listen to what the Spirit says to the churches! :   “To those who win the victory I will give some of the hidden manna. I will also give each of them a white stone on which is written a new name that no one knows except the one who receives it. 
When devout people talk, what they say always makes sense, but foolish people are always contradicting themselves. 
Mary said to the angel, “I am a virgin. How, then, can this be?” 
and said, “I am showing you what the result of God's anger will be. The vision refers to the time of the end. 
Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Ithran, and Beera. 
If you and your neighbour have a difference of opinion, settle it between yourselves and do not reveal any secrets. 
And in the very place where they were told, ‘You are not my people,’ : there they will be called the children of the living God.” 
The four angels were released; for this very hour of this very day of this very month and year they had been kept ready to kill a third of all humanity. 
But Moses and Aaron bowed down with their faces to the ground and said, “O God, you are the source of all life. When one person sins, do you get angry with the whole community?” 
Whenever the people of Israel set up camp, Moses would take the sacred Tent and put it up some distance away from the camp. It was called the Tent of the LORD's presence, and anyone who wanted to consult the LORD would go out to it. 
A prostitute is paid, but you gave presents to all your lovers and bribed them to come from everywhere to sleep with you. 
David went to meet them and said, “If you are coming as friends to help me, you are welcome here. Join us! But if you intend to betray me to my enemies, even though I have not tried to hurt you, the God of our ancestors will know it and punish you.” 
“Sir,” she answered, “even the dogs under the table eat the children's leftovers!” 
And in addition to the daily burnt offering with its wine offering, offer one male goat as a sin offering. 
And so what the LORD had foretold through the prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled: “The land will lie desolate for seventy years, to make up for the Sabbath rest that has not been observed.” 
The visions that you see are false, and the predictions you make are lies. You are wicked and evil, and your day is coming, the day of your final punishment. The sword is going to fall on your necks. 
The LORD was also angry enough with Aaron to kill him, so I prayed for Aaron at the same time. 
The sons of Rachel's slave Bilhah were Dan and Naphtali. 
More than once when I needed help in Thessalonica, you sent it to me. 
Then the LORD spoke to me again. “What else do you see?” he asked. : I answered, “I see a pot boiling in the north, and it is about to tip over this way.” 
Intelligent people will learn from proverbs and parables. They listen well because they want to learn. 
A light to reveal your will to the Gentiles : and bring glory to your people Israel.” 
So send your men to Lebanon to cut down cedars for me. My men will work with them, and I will pay your men whatever you decide. As you well know, my men don't know how to cut down trees as well as yours do.” 
so that your people may honour you and obey you all the time they live in the land which you gave to our ancestors. 
Sin came into the world through one man, and his sin brought death with it. As a result, death has spread to the whole human race because everyone has sinned. 
The servant answered, “Wait! In this town there is a holy man who is highly respected because everything he says comes true. Let's go to him, and maybe he can tell us where we can find the donkeys.” 
Speak wisely, and you will get ahead in the world. Influential people appreciate good sense. 
Does the war trumpet sound in a city without making the people afraid? : Does disaster strike a city unless the LORD sends it? 
But from the time of Adam to the time of Moses death ruled over the whole human race, even over those who did not sin in the same way that Adam did when he disobeyed God's command. : Adam was a figure of the one who was to come. 
He drove me deeper and deeper into darkness 
The sinners among my people will be killed in war — all those who say, ‘God will not let any harm come near us.’ ” 
As soon as Jesus saw them, he called them; they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired men and went with Jesus. 
Build your home there, safe beneath her protecting branches, and shaded from the heat.
Esther replied, 
None of the idols of the nations can send rain; : the sky by itself cannot make showers fall. : We have put our hope in you, O LORD our God, : because you are the one who does these things.
This is how — by offering worthless food on my altar. Then you ask, ‘How have we failed to respect you?’ I will tell you — by showing contempt for my altar. 
There would not be a body if it were all only one part! 
Each one is joined so tight to the next, : not even a breath can come between. 
So get rid of your old self, which made you live as you used to — the old self that was being destroyed by its deceitful desires. 
All I have is yours, and all you have is mine; and my glory is shown through them.  
The LORD had given his commands to his servant Moses, Moses had given them to Joshua, and Joshua obeyed them. He did everything that the LORD had commanded Moses. 
The LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, said, “You yourselves have seen the destruction I brought on Jerusalem and all the other cities of Judah. Even now they are still in ruins, and no one lives in them 
but even darkness is not dark for you, : and the night is as bright as the day. : Darkness and light are the same to you. 
How excellent are the LORD's faithful people! : My greatest pleasure is to be with them. 
It is love, then, that you should strive for. Set your hearts on spiritual gifts, especially the gift of proclaiming God's message. 
When you make friends, don't be too quick to trust them; make sure that they have proved themselves. 
“Take a census by families of the whole community of Israel, of all men twenty years old or older who are fit for military service.” 
As they came down the mountain, Jesus ordered them, “Don't tell anyone about this vision you have seen until the Son of Man has been raised from death.” 
(Refugees escape from Babylonia and come to Jerusalem, and they tell how the LORD our God took revenge for what the Babylonians had done to his Temple.) 
Samuel answered, “Even though you consider yourself of no importance, you are the leader of the tribes of Israel. The LORD anointed you king of Israel, 
and singing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb: : “Lord God Almighty, : how great and wonderful are your deeds! : King of the nations, : how right and true are your ways! 
one for each end of the lid. Make them so that they form one piece with the lid. 
and said, “If you are willing to let me bury my wife here, please ask Ephron son of Zohar 
They persecute those whom you have punished; : they talk about the sufferings of those you have wounded. 
But one year Hoshea sent messengers to So, king of Egypt, asking for his help, and stopped paying the annual tribute to Assyria. When Shalmaneser learnt of this, he had Hoshea arrested and put in prison. 
Then the two women left the house and went to the gates of Bethulia, where they found Uzziah and the town officials, Chabris and Charmis, standing guard. 
The one whom God has sent speaks God's words, because God gives him the fullness of his Spirit. 
They put their trust in God and prayed to him for help, and God answered their prayers and made them victorious over the Hagrites and their allies. 
Every year King Solomon received almost 23 tonnes of gold 
Then Abraham's servant and the men with him ate and drank, and spent the night there. When they got up in the morning, he said, “Let me go back to my master.” 
The share of the community was the same as that for the soldiers: 337,500 sheep and goats, 36,000 cattle, 30,500 donkeys, and 16,000 virgins. 
Fishermen will dry their nets on it, there where it stands in the sea. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken. The nations will plunder Tyre, 
When the king saw that the frogs were dead, he became stubborn again and, just as the LORD had said, the king would not listen to Moses and Aaron. 
But God, who encourages the downhearted, encouraged us with the coming of Titus. 
and said, “This man said, ‘I am able to tear down God's Temple and three days later build it up again.’ ” 
Some people ruin themselves by their own stupid actions and then blame the LORD. 
They forgot the God who had saved them : by his mighty acts in Egypt. 
“The Egyptian officers shout, : ‘Get your shields ready : and march into battle! 
David answered, “Abner, aren't you the greatest man in Israel? So why aren't you protecting your master, the king? Just now someone entered the camp to kill your master. 
Who stood up for me against the wicked? : Who took my side against the evildoers? 
Do not conform yourselves to the standards of this world, but let God transform you inwardly by a complete change of your mind. Then you will be able to know the will of God — what is good and is pleasing to him and is perfect. 
But Jesus answered, “Let us first feed the children. It isn't right to take the children's food and throw it to the dogs.” 
Your head is held high like Mount Carmel. : Your braided hair shines like the finest satin; : its beauty could hold a king captive. 
The LORD came and stood there, and called as he had before, “Samuel! Samuel!” : Samuel answered, “Speak; your servant is listening.” 
Shem's sons — Elam, Asshur, Arpachshad, Lud, Aram, Uz, Hul, Gether, and Meshek — were the ancestors of the peoples who bear their names. 
some dried figs, and two bunches of raisins. After he had eaten, his strength returned; he had not had anything to eat or drink for three full days. 
Then she would return to the camp ritually pure and remain in her tent until after the evening meal. 
No one has ever seen God, but if we love one another, God lives in union with us, and his love is made perfect in us. 
What if the LORD had not been on our side? : Answer, O Israel! 
The beast looked like a leopard, with feet like a bear's feet and a mouth like a lion's mouth. The dragon gave the beast his own power, his throne, and his vast authority. 
But I tell you, Job, you are wrong. : God is greater than any human being. 
At the end of every third year bring the tithe of all your crops and store it in your towns. 
Gibbar — 95 
Then our people shouted in victory. : They had been weak and oppressed, : but they forced the enemy to retreat in panic and fear. 
Let us rejoice and be glad; let us praise his greatness! For the time has come for the wedding of the Lamb, and his bride has prepared herself for it. 
It is better to have virtue, even if it means having no children. Your virtue will be recognized by other people and by God, and you will be remembered for it for ever. 
People who had known him before saw him doing this and asked one another, “What has happened to the son of Kish? Has Saul become a prophet?” 
and moved, the wheels went with them. Whenever they spread their wings to fly, the wheels still went with them. 
They must thank the LORD for his constant love, : for the wonderful things he did for them. 
I have told you this now before it all happens, so that when it does happen, you will believe.  
Do not eat any of it raw or boiled, but eat it roasted whole, including the head, the legs, and the internal organs. 
or to save me from some enemy or tyrant? 
He was afraid and said, “What a terrifying place this is! It must be the house of God; it must be the gate that opens into heaven.” 
Jesus drew near and said to them, “I have been given all authority in heaven and on earth.  
Those who had arrested Jesus took him to the house of Caiaphas, the High Priest, where the teachers of the Law and the elders had gathered together. 
The four chief guards were Levites and had the final responsibility. They were also responsible for the rooms in the Temple and for the supplies kept there. 
So I armed the people with swords, spears, and bows, and stationed them by clans behind the wall, wherever it was still unfinished. 
If anyone hits you on one cheek, let him hit the other one too; if someone takes your coat, let him have your shirt as well.  
who will punish both the things made and the people who made them. 
You will escape through this valley that divides the mountain in two. You will flee as your ancestors did when the earthquake struck in the time of King Uzziah of Judah. The LORD my God will come, bringing all the angels with him. 
When they arrived there, Jehu killed all of Ahab's relatives, not sparing even one. This is what the LORD had told Elijah would happen. 
Then Holofernes said to her, “It's a good thing that God has sent you here to bring us victory and to destroy those who have insulted King Nebuchadnezzar. 
When the people who had gathered there to watch the spectacle saw what happened, they all went back home, beating their breasts in sorrow. 
When he is back on his feet again, everyone is astounded. 
These are the people who cause divisions, who are controlled by their natural desires, who do not have the Spirit. 
When Abram came back from his victory over Chedorlaomer and the other kings, the king of Sodom went out to meet him in the Valley of Shaveh (also called the King's Valley). 
Even after he died, he prophesied to King Saul how he would die. Out of the grave he spoke as a prophet, to blot out his people's wickedness.
Then he heard the LORD speaking to him again: “This slave Eliezer will not inherit your property; your own son will be your heir.” 
Then news that comes from the east and the north will frighten him, and he will fight furiously, killing many people. 
The other officials in the royal service asked him why he was disobeying the king's command; 
Israel has become like any other nation and is as useless as a broken pot. 
So they threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. :   “What, then, will the owner of the vineyard do to the tenants?” Jesus asked. 
“An Egyptian rescued us from the shepherds,” they answered, “and he even drew water for us and watered our animals.” 
Do you not know? : Were you not told long ago? : Have you not heard how the world began? 
You let your lustful neighbours, the Egyptians, go to bed with you, and you used your prostitution to make me angry. 
Let the people of Zion say, : “May Babylonia be held responsible : for the violence done to us!” : Let the people of Jerusalem say, : “May Babylonia be held responsible : for what we have suffered!” 
I listened carefully, but you did not speak the truth. Not one of you has been sorry for his wickedness; not one of you has asked, ‘What have I done wrong?’ Everyone keeps on going his own way, like a horse rushing into battle. 
by the power of miracles and wonders, and by the power of the Spirit of God. And so, in travelling all the way from Jerusalem to Illyricum, I have proclaimed fully the Good News about Christ. 
They will come and sing for joy on Mount Zion : and be delighted with my gifts — : gifts of corn and wine and olive oil, : gifts of sheep and cattle. : They will be like a well-watered garden; : they will have everything they need. 
But I would feed you with the finest wheat : and satisfy you with wild honey.”
and distributed food to them all. He gave each man and woman in Israel a loaf of bread, a piece of roasted meat, and some raisins. Then everyone went home. 
When the LORD rebuilds Zion, : he will reveal his greatness. 
The people of Judah chose Josiah's son Joahaz and anointed him king in Jerusalem. 
“This is the end for Babylon's gods! : Bel and Nebo once were worshipped, : but now they are loaded on donkeys, : a burden for the backs of tired animals. 
For I tell you that the scripture which says, ‘He shared the fate of criminals,’ must come true about me, because what was written about me is coming true.” 
Keep me safe from the trap that has been set for me; : shelter me from danger. 
But he went on to say, “Let me ask one thing of you. Every one of you give me the earrings you took.” (The Midianites, like other desert people, wore gold earrings.) 
“We have sinned and rebelled, and you, O LORD, have not forgiven us. 
I looked, and there was a pale-coloured horse. Its rider was named Death, and Hades followed close behind. They were given authority over a quarter of the earth, to kill by means of war, famine, disease, and wild animals. 
As a grain offering, offer flour mixed with olive oil: with each bull, three kilogrammes of flour; with the ram, two kilogrammes; 
You crushed the monster Rahab and killed it; : with your mighty strength you defeated your enemies. 
For those who are being lost, it is a deadly stench that kills; but for those who are being saved, it is a fragrance that brings life. Who, then, is capable of such a task? 
Saul's daughter Michal, however, fell in love with David, and when Saul heard of this, he was pleased. 
During his reign silver was as common in Jerusalem as stone, and cedar was as plentiful as ordinary sycomore in the foothills of Judah. 
King David said, “I must show loyal friendship to Hanun, as his father Nahash did to me.” So David sent messengers to express his sympathy. : When they arrived in Ammon and called on King Hanun, 
They answered, “Your humble servant, our father, is still alive and well.” And they knelt and bowed down before him. 
Give up all the evil you have been doing, and get yourselves new minds and hearts. Why do you Israelites want to die? 
Heman and Jeduthun also had charge of the trumpets and cymbals and the other instruments which were played when the songs of praise were sung. The members of Jeduthun's clan were in charge of guarding the gates. 
The next day Paul went with us to see James; and all the church elders were present. 
When any food produced there is eaten, some of it is to be set aside as a special contribution to the LORD. 
The total number of the direct descendants of Jacob who went to Egypt was 66, not including his sons' wives. 
He heard that you were shearing your sheep, and he wants you to know that your shepherds have been with us and we did not harm them. Nothing that belonged to them was stolen all the time they were at Carmel. 
When others were greedy for what he had, and wanted to take it away from him, Wisdom stood by him and made him rich. 
The border also touched Tabor, Shahazumah, and Beth Shemesh, ending at the Jordan. It included sixteen cities along with the towns round them. 
How fortunate are those who serve you, who are always in your presence and are privileged to hear your wise sayings! 
Tie the rings of the breastpiece to the rings of the ephod with a blue cord, so that the breastpiece rests above the belt and does not come loose. 
Some commit adultery, and others seduce their daughters-in-law or their half-sisters. 
God is not testing our loyalty as severely as he did theirs. God is not sending this punishment on us as revenge, but as a warning to us who worship him.” 
Hear my cry, O Lord; : listen to my call for help! 
How beautiful you are, my love! : How your eyes shine with love behind your veil. : Your hair dances, like a flock of goats : bounding down the hills of Gilead. 
The LORD has given us eyes to see with and ears to listen with. 
and obey all his laws. I am giving them to you today for your benefit. 
Hodiah married the sister of Naham. Their descendants founded the clan of Garm, which lived in the town of Keilah, and the clan of Maacath, which lived in the town of Eshtemoa. 
Don't worry about anything, but in all your prayers ask God for what you need, always asking him with a thankful heart. 
To an ignorant person, wisdom is as useless as a house gone to ruin. He has never even thought about the things he is so sure of. 
It was now the day before the Passover Festival. Jesus knew that the hour had come for him to leave this world and go to the Father. He had always loved those in the world who were his own, and he loved them to the very end. 
When I was a child, my speech, feelings, and thinking were all those of a child; now that I have grown up, I have no more use for childish ways. 
Whenever he hears a secret, it's like an arrow stuck in his leg. 
Jehoash sent this answer to Amaziah: “Once, a thorn bush in the Lebanon Mountains sent a message to a cedar: ‘Give your daughter in marriage to my son.’ A wild animal passed by and trampled the bush down. 
I offer peace to all, both near and far! I will heal my people. 
You belong to the LORD your God; he has chosen you to be his own people from among all the peoples who live on earth. 
Here is the list of all the others who had to drink from the cup: : the king of Egypt, his officials and leaders; : all the Egyptians and all the foreigners in Egypt; : all the kings of the land of Uz; : all the kings of the Philistine cities of Ashkelon, Gaza, Ekron, and what remains of Ashdod; : all the people of Edom, Moab, and Ammon; : all the kings of Tyre and Sidon; : all the kings of the Mediterranean lands; : the cities of Dedan, Tema, and Buz; : all the people who cut their hair short; : all the kings of Arabia; : all the kings of the desert tribes; : all the kings of Zimri, Elam, and Media; : all the kings of the north, far and near, one after another. : Every nation on the face of the earth had to drink from it. Last of all, the king of Babylonia will drink from it. 
It was recognized as Abraham's property by all the Hittites who were there at the meeting. 
Solomon, the son of King David, took firm control of the kingdom of Israel, and the LORD his God blessed him and made him very powerful. 
But if the enemies of my people want my protection, let them make peace with me. Yes, let them make peace with me.” 
I tell them: those visions you see are false, and the predictions you make are lies. You say that they are my words, but I haven't spoken to you!” 
Those who pay back evil for good : are against me because I try to do right. 
When a fool laughs, it is like thorns crackling in a fire. It doesn't mean a thing. 
Let us, then, go to him outside the camp and share his shame. 
On the eighth day of his purification he shall bring them to the priest at the entrance of the Tent. 
Who will harm you if you are eager to do what is good? 
A terrible disease will also fall on the horses, the mules, the camels, and the donkeys — on all the animals in the camps of the enemy. 
Tiglath Pileser, in answer to Ahaz' plea, marched out with his army against Damascus, captured it, killed King Rezin, and took the people to Kir as prisoners. 
Yet no one can really build a temple for God, because even all the vastness of heaven cannot contain him. How then can I build a temple that would be anything more than a place to burn incense to God? 
Dishonest thoughts separate people from God, and if we are foolish enough to test him, his power will put us to shame. 
Do not deceive yourselves; no one makes a fool of God. People will reap exactly what they sow. 
Then Tobit said to him, “Welcome to our home! God bless you, my son. Please don't be offended because I wanted to know the truth about you and your family. As it turns out, you are from a good family and a relative at that! I knew Ananias and Nathan, the two sons of the older Shemaiah. They were always loyal to their religion. We used to travel together to Jerusalem and worship there. Your relatives are fine people, and you come from good stock. Have a safe journey.” 
Do you find food for lions to eat, : and satisfy hungry young lions 
And he went on to say, “It is what comes out of a person that makes him unclean.  
Even though I am the king chosen by God, I feel weak today. These sons of Zeruiah are too violent for me. May the LORD punish these criminals as they deserve!”
I will give you rulers who obey me, and they will rule you with wisdom and understanding. 
The LORD said to me, 
I will pledge my own life, and you can hold me responsible for him. If I do not bring him back to you safe and sound, I will always bear the blame. 
Many men, claiming to speak for me, will come and say, ‘I am he!’ and they will deceive many people.  
After this, Samson fell in love with a woman named Delilah, who lived in the Valley of Sorek. 
David said, “The LORD God of Israel has given peace to his people, and he himself will live in Jerusalem for ever. 
And so encourage one another and help one another, just as you are now doing. 
Those who had seen it told the people how the man had been cured. 
Someone asked him, “Sir, will just a few people be saved?” : Jesus answered them, 
Go where the old people are; find someone who is wise, and stay with him. 
for I am with you. No one will be able to harm you, for many in this city are my people.”  
You will extend your boundaries on all sides; : your people will get back the land : that the other nations now occupy. : Cities now deserted will be filled with people. 
When trouble comes, will God hear their cries? 
Many miracles and wonders were being done through the apostles, and everyone was filled with awe. 
Your own evil will punish you, : and your turning from me will condemn you. : You will learn how bitter and wrong it is : to abandon me, the LORD your God, : and no longer to remain faithful to me. : I, the Sovereign LORD Almighty, have spoken.” 
“So the LORD also placed King Og and his people in our power, and we slaughtered them all. 
‘Go,’ the Lord said to me, ‘for I will send you far away to the Gentiles.’ ” 
Then the fourth angel blew his trumpet. A third of the sun was struck, and a third of the moon, and a third of the stars, so that their light lost a third of its brightness; there was no light during a third of the day and a third of the night. 
“Go into the hill country,” she said, “or the king's men will find you. Hide there for three days until they come back. After that you can go on your way.” 
So the man went into the house, and Laban unloaded the camels and gave them straw and fodder. Then he brought water for Abraham's servant and his men to wash their feet. 
Judah said to his father, “Send the boy with me, and we will leave at once. Then none of us will starve to death. 
They answered, “Each of us had a dream, and there is no one here to explain what the dreams mean.” : “It is God who gives the ability to interpret dreams,” Joseph said. “Tell me your dreams.” 
Go on, then, and finish what your ancestors started!  
Baruch son of Neriah has stirred you up against us, so that the Babylonians will gain power over us and can either kill us or take us away to Babylonia.” 
Like water from a broken dam : the people rush from Nineveh! : “Stop! Stop!” the cry rings out — : but no one turns back. 
I said, ‘Plough new ground for yourselves, plant righteousness, and reap the blessings that your devotion to me will produce. It is time for you to turn to me, your LORD, and I will come and pour out blessings upon you.’ 
Hadad, Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. 
The man measured the outside of the Temple, and it was fifty metres long. And from the back of the Temple, across the open space to the far side of the building to the west, the distance was also fifty metres. 
The Jewish authorities, however, were not willing to believe that he had been blind and could now see, until they called his parents 
“Go back home,” the king answered, “and I will take care of the matter.” 
I, the LORD, have set tomorrow as the time when I will do this.’ ” 
As the LORD had commanded Moses, the territories of the nine and a half tribes west of the Jordan were determined by drawing lots.  
Long ago, in the days before Israel had a king, there was a famine in the land. So a man named Elimelech, who belonged to the clan of Ephrath and who lived in Bethlehem in Judah, went with his wife Naomi and their two sons Mahlon and Chilion to live for a while in the country of Moab. While they were living there, 
Gideon went along the road by the edge of the desert, east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and attacked the army by surprise. 
and swallowed them and their families, together with all of Korah's followers and their possessions. 
You set the mountains in place by your strength, : showing your mighty power. 
Happy are those who are merciful to others; :   God will be merciful to them! 
How can I endure it if this disaster comes on my people, and my own relatives are killed?” 
the Ammonite leaders said to the king, “Do you think that it is in your father's honour that David has sent these men to express sympathy to you? Of course not! He has sent them here as spies to explore the land, so that he can conquer it!” 
Then they tried to seize him, but no one laid a hand on him, because his hour had not yet come. 
The other Elam — 1,254 
Each family, regardless of size, drew lots to see which gate it would be responsible for. 
It is the LORD who will divide the land among them and give each of them a share. They will live in the land age after age, and it will belong to them for ever.
On the first day of the second month in the second year after the people of Israel left Egypt, the LORD spoke to Moses there in the Tent of his presence in the Sinai Desert. He said, 
He must pay for what he stole. If he owns nothing, he shall be sold as a slave to pay for what he has stolen. If the stolen animal, whether a cow, a donkey, or a sheep, is found alive in his possession, he shall pay two for one. : “If a thief is caught breaking into a house at night and is killed, the one who killed him is not guilty of murder. But if it happens during the day, he is guilty of murder. 
Using force to get a point across is like a castrated man trying to rape a girl. 
As the king was passing by, the prophet called out to him and said, “Your Majesty, I was fighting in the battle when a soldier brought a captured enemy to me and said, ‘Guard this man; if he escapes, you will pay for it with your life or else pay a fine of 3,000 pieces of silver.’ 
The whole community of Israel and the foreigners living among them will be forgiven, because everyone was involved in the mistake. 
Everything on earth that breathed died. 
The Jewish leaders made good progress with the building of the Temple, encouraged by the prophets Haggai and Zechariah. They completed the Temple as they had been commanded by the God of Israel and by Cyrus, Darius, and Artaxerxes, emperors of Persia. 
You will die in peace, and as people burnt incense when they buried your ancestors, who were kings before you, in the same way they will burn incense for you. They will mourn over you and say, ‘Our king is dead!’ I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
On the evening of that same day Jesus said to his disciples, “Let us go across to the other side of the lake.”  
Then it went down from Janoah to Ataroth and Naarah, reaching Jericho and ending at the Jordan. 
I go after it, attack it, and rescue the lamb. And if the lion or bear turns on me, I grab it by the throat and beat it to death. 
You think that what you do is right, but I will expose your conduct, and your idols will not be able to help you. 
Take the teachings that you heard me proclaim in the presence of many witnesses, and entrust them to reliable people, who will be able to teach others also. 
Our leaders and all the people that live in our land told us to get some food ready for a journey and to go and meet you. We were told to put ourselves at your service and ask you to make a treaty with us. 
While the father is alive, the sight of his son makes him happy, and when he dies, he has no regrets. He is not really dead, because his son is like him. 
Anyone who hides hatred is a liar. Anyone who spreads gossip is a fool. 
When he finds it, I tell you, he feels far happier over this one sheep than over the 99 that did not get lost.  
Now, LORD our God, rescue us from the Assyrians, so that all the nations of the world will know that you alone are God.” 
So Mahlah, Tirzah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Noah, the daughters of Zelophehad, did as the LORD had commanded Moses, and they married their cousins. 
But this is not the nature of human beings; not one of us is immortal. 
The widow of a member of a group of prophets went to Elisha and said, “Sir, my husband has died! As you know, he was a God-fearing man, but now a man he owed money to has come to take away my two sons as slaves in payment for my husband's debt.” 
Solomon replied, “If he is loyal, not even a hair on his head will be touched; but if he is not, he will die.” 
When Saul came back from fighting the Philistines, he was told that David was in the wilderness near Engedi. 
The woman was a Gentile, born in the region of Phoenicia in Syria. She begged Jesus to drive the demon out of her daughter. 
If you have sons, educate them. Teach them self-discipline while they are young. 
The LORD says, “My people, what have I done to you? How have I been a burden to you? Answer me. 
The LORD is bringing the elders and leaders of his people to judgement. He makes this accusation: “You have plundered vineyards, and your houses are full of what you have taken from the poor. 
On the first day of the seventh month observe a special day of rest, and come together for worship when the trumpets sound. 
If you are always planning evil, you will earn a reputation as a troublemaker. 
I looked at the dome over the heads of the living creatures and above them was something that seemed to be a throne made of sapphire. 
Bring a drought on its land : and dry up its rivers. : Babylonia is a land of terrifying idols, : that have made fools of the people. 
Break the power of wicked and evil people; : punish them for the wrong they have done : until they do it no more. 
But instead you planted evil and reaped its harvest. You have eaten the fruit produced by your lies. : “Because you trusted in your chariots and in the large number of your soldiers, 
If you do not drive them out, I will destroy you, as I planned to destroy them.”
Solomon made 200 large shields, and had each one overlaid with almost seven kilogrammes of gold. 
Joshua then told the two men who had served as spies, “Go into the prostitute's house and bring her and her family out, as you promised her.” 
You know what the LORD did for you in the desert before you arrived here. 
But the Jews who would not believe stirred up the Gentiles and turned them against the believers. 
But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. 
The next day John was standing there again with two of his disciples, 
The king was overjoyed and gave orders for Daniel to be pulled up out of the pit. So they pulled him up and saw that he had not been hurt at all, for he trusted God. 
In the beginning the Lord did his work of creation, : and he gave everything a place of its own. 
She saw the food that was served at his table, the living quarters for his officials, the organization of his palace staff and the uniforms they wore, the clothing of the servants who waited on him at feasts, and the sacrifices he offered in the Temple. It left her breathless and amazed. 
The money given for the repayment offerings and for the offerings for sin was not deposited in the box; it belonged to the priests. 
The wise have also said these things: : It is wrong for judges to be prejudiced. 
When food was brought, the man said, “I will not eat until I have said what I have to say.” : Laban said, “Go on and speak.” 
where an arrow would pierce its heart. He was like a bird going into a net — he did not know that his life was in danger. 
and the really great one: someone who is wise. : But the greatest one of all is the person who fears the Lord. 
Pedaiah had two sons, Zerubbabel and Shimei. Zerubbabel was the father of two sons, Meshullam and Hananiah, and one daughter, Shelomith. 
They say they are wise, but they are fools; 
Besides all this, God gave him sheep and cattle and so much other wealth that he built many cities. 
I wrote a letter to the priests, the prophets, the leaders of the people, and to all the others whom Nebuchadnezzar had taken away as prisoners from Jerusalem to Babylonia. 
So Haman told the king, “There is a certain race of people scattered all over your empire and found in every province. They observe customs that are not like those of any other people. Moreover, they do not obey the laws of the empire, so it is not in your best interests to tolerate them. 
At first, the people of the whole world had only one language and used the same words. 
Let your hope keep you joyful, be patient in your troubles, and pray at all times. 
On that day the LORD Almighty will humble everyone who is powerful, everyone who is proud and conceited. 
“Make shirts, sashes, and caps for Aaron's sons, to provide them with dignity and beauty. 
The LORD says to his people, “I have always loved you.” : But they reply, “How have you shown your love for us?” : The LORD answers, “Esau and Jacob were brothers, but I have loved Jacob and his descendants, 
Sir, I had two sons, and one day they got into a quarrel out in the fields, where there was no one to separate them, and one of them killed the other. 
Some people think a bribe works like magic; they believe it can do anything. 
We are not like so many others, who handle God's message as if it were cheap merchandise; but because God has sent us, we speak with sincerity in his presence, as servants of Christ.
When the sun was going down, Abram fell into a deep sleep, and fear and terror came over him. 
and he also decides that he doesn't want her, so he also writes out divorce papers, gives them to her, and sends her away from his home. Or suppose her second husband dies. 
Then God opened a hollow place in the ground there at Lehi, and water came out of it. Samson drank it and began to feel much better. So the spring was named Hakkore; it is still there at Lehi. 
until what he had predicted came true. : The word of the LORD proved him right. 
Salvation is to be found through him alone; in all the world there is no one else whom God has given who can save us.” 
Anyone who is joined to Christ is a new being; the old is gone, the new has come. 
When I think of God, I sigh; : when I meditate, I feel discouraged. 
On the day of the king's celebration they made the king and his officials drunk and foolish with wine. 
and then write Aaron's name on the stick representing Levi. There will be one stick for each tribal leader. 
The value of wisdom is more : Than coral or crystal or rubies. 
Yes, you punish us, but you punish our enemies 10,000 times more, so that when we judge others, we may remember your goodness, and when we are being judged, we may look for mercy. 
No pupil is greater than his teacher; but every pupil, when he has completed his training, will be like his teacher. 
Has anyone ever shown you the gates : that guard the dark world of the dead? 
The light of the wicked will still be put out; : its flame will never burn again. 
He spreads clouds over the sky; : he provides rain for the earth : and makes grass grow on the hills. 
They are round me now, wherever I turn, : watching for a chance to pull me down. 
And the Lord will rescue me from all evil and take me safely into his heavenly Kingdom. To him be the glory for ever and ever! Amen. 
And he's right — he's a constant joke to everyone. 
Zaccai — 760 
He said to them, “I have noticed that your father is not as friendly towards me as he used to be; but my father's God has been with me. 
Flames blaze from his mouth, : and streams of sparks fly out. 
I wish you would tolerate me, even when I am a bit foolish. Please do! 
“Do not attack your fellow-Israelites. Go home, all of you. What has happened is my will.” They obeyed the LORD's command and did not go to fight Jeroboam. 
At the same time he was hoping that Paul would give him some money; and for this reason he would often send for him and talk with him. 
in whose valleys the Amalekites and the Canaanites now live. Turn back tomorrow and go into the wilderness in the direction of the Gulf of Aqaba.” 
You should teach them God's commands and explain to them how they should live and what they should do. 
Do your sowing in the morning and in the evening, too. You never know whether it will all grow well or whether one sowing will do better than the other. 
You will be killed in battle or dragged off as prisoners. Yet even so the LORD's anger will not be ended; his hand will still be stretched out to punish. 
No wound is as serious as wounded love. No troubles are as serious as the troubles that women cause. 
I felt the powerful presence of the LORD and heard him say to me, “Get up and go out into the valley. I will talk to you there.” 
David would go back to Bethlehem from time to time, to take care of his father's sheep. 
O God, I will offer you what I have promised; : I will give you my offering of thanksgiving, 
The LORD was determined that the walls of Zion should fall; : He measured them off to make sure of total destruction. : The towers and walls now lie in ruins together. 
he shall take a fire pan full of burning coals from the altar and two handfuls of fine incense and bring them into the Most Holy Place. 
If you won't listen to me, then God will use foreigners speaking some strange-sounding language to teach you a lesson. 
and I turned and went down the mountain. Then, just as the LORD had commanded, I put them in the box that I had made — and they have been there ever since.” 
For this reason you must obey the authorities — not just because of God's punishment, but also as a matter of conscience. 
“Foolish people! How long do you want to be foolish? How long will you enjoy pouring scorn on knowledge? Will you never learn? 
Where, then, is the source of wisdom? : Where can we learn to understand? 
while the poor man had only one lamb, which he had bought. He took care of it, and it grew up in his home with his children. He would feed it with some of his own food, let it drink from his cup, and hold it in his lap. The lamb was like a daughter to him. 
This was how the birth of Jesus Christ took place. His mother Mary was engaged to Joseph, but before they were married, she found out that she was going to have a baby by the Holy Spirit. 
Sing praise to the LORD, : all his faithful people! : Remember what the Holy One has done, : and give him thanks! 
At that time some people were there who told Jesus about the Galileans whom Pilate had killed while they were offering sacrifices to God. 
in order to lead you to worship and serve gods that you have not worshipped before. Even if what they promise comes true, 
But the LORD reprimanded Moses and Aaron. He said, “Because you did not have enough faith to acknowledge my holy power before the people of Israel, you will not lead them into the land that I promised to give them.” 
Their service involves the most holy things. 
Leave me alone so that I may have some happiness : before I go away and am no more.
I told you that I am the LORD your God and that you should not worship the gods of the Amorites, whose land you are now living in. But you did not listen to me.” 
When Moses had grown up, he went out to visit his people, the Hebrews, and he saw how they were forced to do hard labour. He even saw an Egyptian kill a Hebrew, one of Moses' own people. 
War horses are useless for victory; : their great strength cannot save. 
Gossips and liars deserve to be cursed, because they have been the ruin of many people who were minding their own business. 
Jacob sent messengers ahead of him to his brother Esau in the country of Edom. 
Then he took the seven loaves and the fish, gave thanks to God, broke them, and gave them to the disciples; and the disciples gave them to the people. 
In every church service I want the men to pray, men who are dedicated to God and can lift up their hands in prayer without anger or argument. 
I gave them the message that you gave me, and they received it; they know that it is true that I came from you, and they believe that you sent me. 
Saul also ordered all the other inhabitants of Nob, the city of priests, to be put to death: men and women, children and babies, cattle, donkeys, and sheep — they were all killed. 
the earth was formless and desolate. The raging ocean that covered everything was engulfed in total darkness, and the Spirit of God was moving over the water. 
Because of this the LORD Almighty says, : “I will refine my people like metal : and put them to the test. : My people have done evil — : what else can I do with them? 
“Who are you?” Isaac asked. : “Your elder son Esau,” he answered. 
“Make certain that you do not forget the LORD your God; do not fail to obey any of his laws that I am giving you today. 
People's hopes began to rise, and they began to wonder whether John perhaps might be the Messiah. 
a land that produces wheat and barley, grapes, figs, pomegranates, olives, and honey. 
Be certain about what you believe and consistent in what you say. Don't try to please everyone or agree with everything people say.  
All six were born in Hebron during the seven and a half years that David ruled there. : In Jerusalem he ruled as king for 33 years, 
‘The Lord said to my Lord: :   Sit here on my right :   until I put your enemies under your feet.’ 
Stand up for what is right, even if it costs you your life; the Lord God will be fighting on your side. 
So you should not pass judgement on anyone before the right time comes. Final judgement must wait until the Lord comes; he will bring to light the dark secrets and expose the hidden purposes of people's minds. And then all will receive from God the praise they deserve. 
When he becomes king, he is to have a copy of the book of God's laws and teachings made from the original copy kept by the levitical priests. 
May they know that you alone are the LORD, : supreme ruler over all the earth.
I will keep the promise I made to your father David when I told him that Israel would always be ruled by his descendants. 
Do you know how God gives the command : and makes lightning flash from the clouds? 
Suddenly, here they come! Men on horseback, two by two. The sentry gives the news, “Babylon has fallen! All the idols they worshipped lie shattered on the ground.” 
Break into shouts of joy, : you ruins of Jerusalem! : The LORD will rescue his city : and comfort his people. 
A golden glow is seen in the north, : and the glory of God fills us with awe. 
He gave me many sons, and out of them all he chose Solomon to rule over Israel, the LORD's kingdom. 
Show no partiality in your decisions; judge everyone on the same basis, no matter who they are. Do not be afraid of anyone, for the decisions you make come from God. If any case is too difficult for you, bring it to me, and I will decide it.’ 
Remember that I, the LORD Almighty, am holy; I am the one you must fear. 
The LORD said to Gideon, “I will rescue you and give you victory over the Midianites with the 300 men who lapped the water. Tell everyone else to go home.” 
Some people spend their money freely and still grow richer. Others are cautious, and yet grow poorer. 
He gave orders to Joab, Abishai, and Ittai: “For my sake don't harm the young man Absalom.” And all the troops heard David give this command to his officers. 
My conduct will be faultless. : When will you come to me? : I will live a pure life in my house, 
He set out with all his chariots, including the 600 finest, commanded by their officers. 
more than any other place in Israel : he loves the city of Jerusalem. 
But others were saying, “A man with a demon could not talk like this! How could a demon give sight to blind people?” 
Barnabas was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and faith, and many people were brought to the Lord. 
The LORD commanded us to do what we have done today, in order to take away your sin. 
If I sin and am secretly disloyal, nobody will know it.  
We are not trying again to recommend ourselves to you; rather, we are trying to give you a good reason to be proud of us, so that you will be able to answer those who boast about people's appearance and not about their character. 
So she went back and told Raguel and Edna that Tobias was alive and unharmed. 
He will hand you and Israel over to the Philistines. Tomorrow you and your sons will join me, and the LORD will also hand the army of Israel over to the Philistines.” 
The LORD controls the mind of a king as easily as he directs the course of a stream. 
The angel of the LORD said to Elijah, “Go down with him, and don't be afraid.” So Elijah went with the officer to the king 
he takes up his deadly weapons : and aims his burning arrows. 
His Majesty is certain to hear about this, so I suggest that you and I meet to talk the situation over.” 
“Have you never heard that I planned all this long ago? And now I have carried it out. I gave you the power to turn fortified cities into piles of rubble. 
We are all born weak and helpless. : All lead the same short, troubled life. 
Jahath, Gershon, Levi. 
Parosh — 2,172 
He will bring on you once again all the dreadful diseases you experienced in Egypt, and you will never recover. 
Then the Amorites who lived in those hills came out against you like a swarm of bees. They chased you as far as Hormah and defeated you there in the hill country of Edom. 
Their horsemen will storm through your streets, killing your people with their swords. Your mighty pillars will be thrown to the ground. 
They are worthless and should be despised; : they will be destroyed when the LORD comes to deal with them. 
His court officials went to him and tried to make him get up, but he refused and would not eat anything with them. 
and never be able to understand what God is doing. However hard you try, you will never find out. The wise may claim to know, but they don't.
“What about you?” he asked them. “Who do you say I am?” 
“Tell the city of Zion, : Look, your king is coming to you! : He is humble and rides on a donkey : and on a colt, the foal of a donkey.” 
The Lord is kind and merciful; he forgives our sins and keeps us safe in time of trouble. 
Saul was told, “Look, the people are sinning against the LORD by eating meat with the blood in it.” : “You are traitors!” Saul cried out. “Roll a big stone over here to me.” 
The temple was filled with smoke from the glory and power of God, and no one could go into the temple until the seven plagues brought by the seven angels had come to an end.
So Gideon went into his house and cooked a young goat and used ten kilogrammes of flour to make bread without any yeast. He put the meat in a basket and the broth in a pot, brought them to the LORD's angel under the oak tree, and gave them to him. 
Zillah gave birth to Tubal Cain, who made all kinds of tools out of bronze and iron. The sister of Tubal Cain was Naamah. 
They had no fear of God, and so they attacked you from the rear when you were tired and exhausted, and killed all who were straggling behind. 
The Law brims over with understanding like the Euphrates, like the Jordan at harvest time. 
But the sons of Korah were not killed.) 
He doesn't lend money for profit. He refuses to do evil and gives an honest decision in any dispute. 
Jesus said, “I came to this world to judge, so that the blind should see and those who see should become blind.” 
On the west their territory extended to the River Jordan, from Lake Galilee in the north down to the Dead Sea in the south and to the foot of Mount Pisgah on the east. 
“How terrible for you, teachers of the Law and Pharisees! You hypocrites! You make fine tombs for the prophets and decorate the monuments of those who lived good lives;  
The church is Christ's body, the completion of him who himself completes all things everywhere.
God condemns kings and rulers : when they are worthless or wicked. 
Put the washbasin between the Tent and the altar and fill it with water. 
Dan, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. 
All these 24 men were experts; and their fellow-Levites were trained musicians. There were 288 men in all. 
The heavens proclaim his righteousness, : and all the nations see his glory. 
All the believers continued together in close fellowship and shared their belongings with one another. 
He has not done this for other nations; : they do not know his laws. : Praise the LORD!
Words have failed them, Job; : they have no answer for you. 
because of the evil they did to you when they deceived you at Peor, and because of Cozbi, who was killed at the time of the epidemic at Peor.”
to give all of you the same punishment if you don't tell me the dream. You have agreed among yourselves to go on telling me lies because you hope that in time things will change. Tell me what the dream was, and then I will know that you can also tell me what it means.” 
But maybe we are too harsh with these people. After all, they may have really wanted to find God, but they couldn't. 
“That is why my eyes are overflowing with tears. : No one can comfort me; no one can give me courage. : The enemy has conquered me; my people have nothing left. 
If I have broken the law and done something for which I deserve the death penalty, I do not ask to escape it. But if there is no truth in the charges they bring against me, no one can hand me over to them. I appeal to the Emperor.” 
One of the creatures put his hand into the fire that was there among them, picked up some coals, and put them in the hands of the man in linen. The man took the coals and left. 
“Please take 6,000 pieces of silver,” Naaman replied. He insisted on it, tied up the silver in two bags, gave them and two changes of fine clothes to two of his servants, and sent them on ahead of Gehazi. 
The children will put the blame for their disgrace on their ungodly parents. 
“Sit down,” they said, “and read the scroll to us.” So Baruch did. 
Then the LORD said to Moses, “Go and see the king. I have made him and his officials stubborn, in order that I may perform these miracles among them 
After drinking much wine, they delight in their prostitution, preferring disgrace to honour. 
(Saul's chief herdsman, Doeg, who was from Edom, happened to be there that day, because he had to fulfil a religious obligation.) 
But the day will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast.” 
For this reason God raised him to the highest place above : and gave him the name that is greater than any other name. 
The weight of stone and sand is nothing compared to the trouble that stupidity can cause. 
The LORD gave us mind and conscience; we cannot hide from ourselves. 
One day when Jesus was in the Temple teaching the people and preaching the Good News, the chief priests and the teachers of the Law, together with the elders, came 
Zattu — 945 
Then Judah said to his daughter-in-law Tamar, “Return to your father's house and remain a widow until my son Shelah grows up.” He said this because he was afraid that Shelah would be killed, as his brothers had been. So Tamar went back home. 
Let us thank God for his priceless gift!
For seven days they joyfully celebrated the Festival of Unleavened Bread. They were full of joy because the LORD had made the emperor of Assyria favourable to them, so that he supported them in their work of rebuilding the Temple of the God of Israel.
Eber, Peleg, Reu, 
The LORD is merciful and loving, : slow to become angry and full of constant love. 
When Mephibosheth arrived from Jerusalem to meet the king, the king said to him, “Mephibosheth, you didn't go with me. Why not?” 
But you must keep control of yourself in all circumstances; endure suffering, do the work of a preacher of the Good News, and perform your whole duty as a servant of God. 
When people lived too far away to honour a ruler in his presence but were eager to pay honour to this absent king, they would imagine what he must look like, and would then make a likeness of him. 
Abimelech lived in Arumah, and Zebul drove Gaal and his brothers out of Shechem, so that they could no longer live there. 
All day long they surround me like a flood; : they close in on me from every side. 
“ ‘Do not use my name for evil purposes, for I, the LORD your God, will punish anyone who misuses my name. 
He fills my life with good things, : so that I stay young and strong like an eagle. 
Christ existed before all things, and in union with him all things have their proper place. 
immortality will bring you close to God. 
The adulterer waits for twilight to come; : he covers his face so that no one can see him. 
Nebuchadnezzar made Jehoiachin's uncle Mattaniah king of Judah and changed his name to Zedekiah. 
You can live in the region of Goshen, where you can be near me — you, your children, your grandchildren, your sheep, your goats, your cattle, and everything else that you have. 
Reverence for the LORD is an education in itself. You must be humble before you can ever receive honours.
The wheels were 66 centimetres high; they were under the panels, and the axles were of one piece with the carts. 
The beast was allowed to make proud claims which were insulting to God, and it was permitted to have authority for 42 months. 
How terrible it will be in those days for women who are pregnant and for mothers with little babies! Terrible distress will come upon this land, and God's punishment will fall on this people.  
The LORD hates liars, but is pleased with those who keep their word. 
Look how proud and boastful they are! Pour out your fury upon them! I am only a widow, but give me the strength to carry out my plan. 
Then Jacob gave him some bread and some of the soup. He ate and drank and then got up and left. That was all Esau cared about his rights as the firstborn son.
I watched him attack the ram. He was so angry that he smashed into him and broke the two horns. The ram had no strength to resist. He was thrown to the ground and trampled on, and there was no one who could save him. 
When you have finished doing that, take a young bull and a young ram, both of them without any defects, 
Then Jesus went into the official's house. When he saw the musicians for the funeral and the people all stirred up, 
One of his officials said, “The people here in the city are doomed anyway, like those that have already died. So let's send some men with five of the horses that are left, so that we can find out what has happened.”  
Peter said, “Lord, does this parable apply to us, or do you mean it for everyone?” 
But continue to grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. To him be the glory, now and for ever! Amen.
They loved human approval rather than the approval of God. 
The LORD your God will lead you, and he will fight for you, just as you saw him do in Egypt 
And Absalom hated Amnon so much for having raped his sister Tamar that he would no longer even speak to him. 
Samuel continued, “The LORD is the one who chose Moses and Aaron and who brought your ancestors out of Egypt. 
Then Peter came to Jesus and asked, “Lord, if my brother keeps on sinning against me, how many times do I have to forgive him? Seven times?” 
LORD, I have come to you for protection; : never let me be defeated! 
In the cities the wounded and dying cry out, : but God ignores their prayers. 
Long ago a place was prepared where a huge fire will burn the emperor of Assyria. It is deep and wide, and piled high with wood. The LORD will breathe out a stream of flame to set it on fire.
When all these officials gathered for the dedication and stood in front of the statue, 
Then I added, “All your women and children will be taken out to the Babylonians, and you yourself will not escape from them. You will be taken prisoner by the king of Babylonia, and this city will be burnt to the ground.” 
They were like well-fed stallions wild with desire, : each lusting for his neighbour's wife. 
its legs of iron, and its feet partly of iron and partly of clay. 
When I am lifted up from the earth, I will draw everyone to me.”  
When Elijah heard it, he covered his face with his cloak and went out and stood at the entrance of the cave. A voice said to him, “Elijah, what are you doing here?” 
John also was baptizing in Aenon, not far from Salim, because there was plenty of water in that place. People were going to him, and he was baptizing them. 
and distributed food to them all. He gave each man and woman in Israel a loaf of bread, a piece of roasted meat, and some raisins. 
Look me in the face. I won't lie. 
LORD, you make the path smooth for good people; : the road they travel is level. 
“If I testify on my own behalf, what I say is not to be accepted as real proof.  
then you will find the joy that comes from serving me. I will make you honoured all over the world, and you will enjoy the land I gave to your ancestor, Jacob. I, the LORD, have spoken.”
How I pray that victory : will come to Israel from Zion. : How happy the people of Israel will be : when the LORD makes them prosperous again!
God's greatness is broader than the earth, : wider than the sea. 
Let me put it this way: each one of you says something different. One says, “I follow Paul”; another, “I follow Apollos”; another, “I follow Peter”; and another, “I follow Christ”. 
Surely you know that the men who work in the Temple get their food from the Temple and that those who offer the sacrifices on the altar get a share of the sacrifices. 
You will plunder and loot the people who live in cities that were once in ruins. They have been gathered from the nations, and now they have livestock and property and live at the crossroads of the world. 
On Judgement Day the people of Nineveh will stand up and accuse you, because they turned from their sins when they heard Jonah preach; and I assure you that there is something here greater than Jonah! 
For it was not David who went up into heaven; rather he said: : ‘The Lord said to my Lord: : Sit here at my right 
The descendants of Bela were Addar, Gera, Abihud, 
The young soldiers advanced first. Scouts sent out by Benhadad reported to him that a group of soldiers was coming out of Samaria. 
Jesus said to the man, “Come up here to the front.”  
And so people become enemies of God when they are controlled by their human nature; for they do not obey God's law, and in fact they cannot obey it. 
We have not been misled by any evil product of human skill, by any useless object painted by some artist, or by any idol smeared with different colours. 
But if they have doubts about what they eat, God condemns them when they eat it, because their action is not based on faith. And anything that is not based on faith is sin.
so that there is a square area measuring 900 metres on each side, with the city in the middle. 
King Josiah summoned all the leaders of Judah and Jerusalem, 
So our hope in you is never shaken; we know that just as you share in our sufferings, you also share in the help we receive. 
It is better to have a little, honestly earned, than to have a large income gained dishonestly. 
The great day of the LORD is near — very near and coming fast! That will be a bitter day, for even the bravest soldiers will cry out in despair! 
The LORD is the friend of those who obey him : and he affirms his covenant with them. 
He ran to him, stood over him, took Goliath's sword out of its sheath, and cut off his head and killed him. : When the Philistines saw that their hero was dead, they ran away. 
So the twelve apostles called the whole group of believers together and said, “It is not right for us to neglect the preaching of God's word in order to handle finances. 
The curtain hanging in the Temple was torn in two, from top to bottom. 
Many people read it, because the place where Jesus was crucified was not far from the city. The notice was written in Hebrew, Latin, and Greek. 
But more and more people were added to the group — a crowd of men and women who believed in the Lord. 
These are the descendants of Esau, also called Edom. 
Three years earlier the LORD had told Isaiah son of Amoz to take off his sandals and the sackcloth he was wearing. He obeyed and went about naked and barefoot. 
I have done my best in the race, I have run the full distance, and I have kept the faith.  
Before that day comes, be kind to your friends; be as generous as you can. 
Then he kissed her and began to cry for joy. 
Whoever sees me sees also him who sent me.  
Then the glory of the LORD will be revealed, : and the whole human race will see it. : The LORD himself has promised this.” 
So God made them all, and he was pleased with what he saw. 
and said to them, “It is written in the Scriptures that God said, ‘My Temple will be called a house of prayer.’ But you are making it a hideout for thieves!” 
The shouting became louder, and some of the teachers of the Law who belonged to the party of the Pharisees stood up and protested strongly: “We cannot find anything wrong with this man! Perhaps a spirit or an angel really did speak to him!” 
Then the sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates. The river dried up, to provide a way for the kings who come from the east. 
I make fools of fortune tellers : and frustrate the predictions of astrologers. : The words of the wise I refute : and show that their wisdom is foolishness. 
But it happened because her prophets sinned and her priests were guilty : of causing the death of innocent people. 
When that day comes, the LORD will save his people, : as a shepherd saves his flock from danger. : They will shine in his land : like the jewels of a crown. 
Like an oak I spread out my branches, : magnificent and graceful. 
Then the LORD said to Moses, “Raise your hand towards the sky, and hail will fall over the whole land of Egypt — on the people, the animals, and all the plants in the fields.” 
David ruled over all Israel and made sure that his people were always treated fairly and justly. 
The LORD says, “When that time comes, the people of both Israel and Judah will come weeping, looking for me, their God. 
Help me, O LORD my God; : because of your constant love, save me! 
So they set up a tent for Absalom on the palace roof, and in the sight of everyone Absalom went in and had intercourse with his father's concubines. 
The wicked draw their swords and bend their bows : to kill the poor and needy, : to slaughter those who do what is right; 
It is the same with us — we were born, and then we ceased to be. We left no sign of virtue behind us; we were destroyed by our wickedness.” 
If I do what I don't want to do, this means that I am no longer the one who does it; instead, it is the sin that lives in me. 
The middle section was also a square, seven metres on each side, with a rim at the outside edge 25 centimetres high. (The gutter was fifty centimetres wide.) The steps going up the altar were on the east side. 
“Abraham said, ‘Your brothers have Moses and the prophets to warn them; your brothers should listen to what they say.’  
‘I am going to send for all the peoples from the north and for my servant, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia. I am going to bring them to fight against Judah and its inhabitants and against all the neighbouring nations. I am going to destroy this nation and its neighbours and leave them in ruins for ever, a terrible and shocking sight. I, the LORD, have spoken. 
For even though it was in weakness that he was put to death on the cross, it is by God's power that he lives. In union with him we also are weak; but in our relations with you we shall share God's power in his life. 
Break the teeth of these fierce lions, O God. 
The tribe of Gad stayed east of the Jordan, : and the tribe of Dan remained by the ships. : The tribe of Asher stayed by the coast; : they remained along the shore. 
The High Priest stood up in front of them all and questioned Jesus, “Have you no answer to the accusation they bring against you?” 
But Festus wanted to gain favour with the Jews, so he asked Paul, “Would you be willing to go to Jerusalem and be tried on these charges before me there?” 
“As they leave, they will see the dead bodies of those who have rebelled against me. The worms that eat them will never die, and the fire that burns them will never be put out. The sight of them will be disgusting to the whole human race.”
to tell his people that they will be saved : by having their sins forgiven. 
“A nation from the north has come to attack Babylonia and will make it a desert. People and animals will run away, and no one will live there.” 
and after he had eaten, his strength came back. : Saul stayed for a few days with the believers in Damascus. 
At dawn the angels tried to make Lot hurry. “Quick!” they said. “Take your wife and your two daughters and get out, so that you will not lose your lives when the city is destroyed.” 
But an honourable person acts honestly and stands firm for what is right. 
At all times they give freely and lend to others, : and their children are a blessing. 
The goat will carry all their sins away with him into some uninhabited land. 
And when I do, my soldiers will put you to death. You will be just another name on the casualty list. 
People of Philistia, the rod that beat you is broken, but you have no reason to be glad. When one snake dies, a worse one comes in its place. A snake's egg hatches a flying dragon. 
in the following way: sprinkle them with the water of purification and tell them to shave their whole bodies and to wash their clothes. Then they will be ritually clean. 
When all the leaders had gathered, then the Levites lifted the Covenant Box 
He said, “Praise the LORD God of Israel! He has kept the promise he made to my father David when he said to him, 
Just then a man with an evil spirit in him came into the synagogue and screamed, 
When a woman has her monthly period, she remains unclean for seven days. Anyone who touches her is unclean until evening. 
King David announced to the whole assembly: “My son Solomon is the one whom God has chosen, but he is still young and lacks experience. The work to be done is tremendous, because this is not a palace for people but a temple for the LORD God. 
So the earth produced all kinds of plants, and God was pleased with what he saw. 
He led his people through the desert; : his love is eternal. 
The LORD made the stars, : the Pleiades and Orion. : He turns darkness into daylight, : and day into night. : He calls for the waters of the sea : and pours them out on the earth. : His name is the LORD. 
They say, “He is fatally ill; : he will never leave his bed again.” 
People will answer, ‘It is because they abandoned the LORD their God, who brought their ancestors out of Egypt. They gave their allegiance to other gods and worshipped them. That is why the LORD has brought this disaster on them.’ ” 
Our purpose is to do what is right, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of others. 
When the day came for the heavenly beings to appear before the LORD again, Satan was there among them. 
Hukok, and Rehob. 
He gives me new strength. : He guides me in the right paths, : as he has promised. 
I passed on to you what I received, which is of the greatest importance: that Christ died for our sins, as written in the Scriptures; 
“Your Majesty,” she said, “whatever you do, my family and I will take the blame; you and the royal family are innocent.” 
A sinner may commit a hundred crimes and still live. Oh yes, I know what they say: “If you obey God, everything will be all right, 
and even if those three men lived there — as surely as I, the Sovereign LORD, am the living God — they would not be able to save even their own children. They would save only their own lives, and the land would become a wilderness. 
I let them feel the force of my anger because of the murders they had committed in the land and because of the idols by which they had defiled it. 
You were baptized into union with Christ, and now you are clothed, so to speak, with the life of Christ himself. 
The LORD commanded Moses 
If you have no regard for the law, you are on the side of the wicked; but if you obey it, you are against them. 
A stream flowed in Eden and watered the garden; beyond Eden it divided into four rivers. 
What I do is done for my own sake — : I will not let my name be dishonoured : or let anyone else share the glory : that should be mine and mine alone.” 
Then God gave Abraham the ceremony of circumcision as a sign of the covenant. So Abraham circumcised Isaac a week after he was born; Isaac circumcised his son Jacob, and Jacob circumcised his twelve sons, the famous ancestors of our race. 
Then Jehu put to death all the other relatives of Ahab living in Jezreel, and all his officers, close friends, and priests; not one of them was left alive. 
For you know what was paid to set you free from the worthless manner of life handed down by your ancestors. It was not something that can be destroyed, such as silver or gold; 
Simon's mother-in-law was sick in bed with a fever, and as soon as Jesus arrived, he was told about her. 
the Law of the Most High and his covenant, : judging even godless people fairly, 
The people of Israel and Judah : have betrayed me completely. : I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
carrying out your firm command with a fearful weapon, standing with feet on the ground and head touching the sky, filling the land with death. 
He also referred to the prophet Job, who always did the right thing. 
Be glad, heaven, because of her destruction! Be glad, God's people and the apostles and prophets! For God has condemned her for what she did to you! 
If he decides not to come to our aid within five days, he still may rescue us at any time he chooses. Or he may let our enemies destroy us. 
The people were all so amazed that they started saying to one another, “What is this? Is it some kind of new teaching? This man has authority to give orders to the evil spirits, and they obey him!” 
“Mortal man,” he said, “tremble when you eat, and shake with fear when you drink. 
“Then suppose this man has a son who robs and kills, who does any of these things 
During all this time Rehoboam and Jeroboam were constantly at war with each other. 
If you are older than most of the guests, you may talk; that is your right. But you should know what you are talking about and not interrupt the music. 
Happy are those who wash their robes clean and so have the right to eat the fruit from the tree of life and to go through the gates into the city. 
What can I say, O Lord, now that Israel has retreated from the enemy? 
When they heard this noise, a large crowd gathered. They were all excited, because each one of them heard the believers speaking in his or her own language. 
That is the message the LORD gave earlier about Moab. 
The LORD your God will make them retreat from you, and he will drive them away as you advance. You shall have their land, as the LORD your God has promised you. 
“When I came to the well today, I prayed, ‘LORD, God of my master Abraham, please give me success in what I am doing. 
Before the emperor died, I made regular visits to the land of Media to buy things for him there. Once, when I was in the city of Rages in Media, I left some bags of money there with Gabael, Gabrias' brother, and asked him to keep them for me. There were more than 300 kilogrammes of silver coins in those bags. 
while the people bowed a second time in worship to receive that blessing from the Most High. 
All the animals in the forests of Lebanon : are not enough for a sacrifice to our God, : and its trees are too few to kindle the fire. 
Also on joyful occasions — at your New Moon Festivals and your other religious festivals — you are to blow the trumpets when you present your burnt offerings and your fellowship offerings. Then I will help you. I am the LORD your God.” 
Then they put his weapons in the temple of the goddess Astarte, and they nailed his body to the wall of the city of Beth Shan. 
Now speak to the people of Israel and tell all of them to ask their neighbours for gold and silver jewellery.” 
Jesus said to her, “Mary!” : She turned towards him and said in Hebrew, “Rabboni!” (This means “Teacher”.) 
The king assigned 24,000 to administer the work of the Temple, 6,000 to keep records and decide disputes, 
“It may be that some cases will be too difficult for the local judges to decide, such as certain cases of property rights or of bodily injury or those cases that involve a distinction between murder and manslaughter. When this happens, go to the one place of worship chosen by the LORD your God, 
Then, between the first two divisions and the last two the Levites are to march carrying the Tent. Each division shall march in the same order as they camp, each in position under its banner. 
So Ahab summoned all the Israelites and the prophets of Baal to meet at Mount Carmel. 
Then call the whole community together there.” 
Don't be greedy for the fine food he serves; he may be trying to trick you. 
he was sorry that he had ever made them and put them on the earth. He was so filled with regret 
May the wicked fall into their own traps : while I go by unharmed.
The community is to rescue the one guilty of manslaughter from the dead person's relative, and they are to return him to the city of refuge to which he had escaped. He must live there until the death of the man who is then High Priest. 
May the angel, who has rescued me from all harm, bless them! : May my name and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac live on through these boys! : May they have many children, many descendants!” 
But in spite of what I said, you still would not trust the LORD, 
There is nothing in the world that I hate as much as a person like that — and the Lord hates him too. 
and if they die young, they will have no hope or comfort on Judgement Day. 
The LORD said to Moses, “Why are you crying out for help? Tell the people to move forward. 
“If a bull gores someone to death, it is to be stoned, and its flesh shall not be eaten; but its owner is not to be punished. 
supported by twenty bronze posts in twenty bronze bases, with hooks and rods made of silver. 
Then he said to the disciple, “She is your mother.” From that time the disciple took her to live in his home. 
After King Solomon had finished building the Temple and the palace and everything else he wanted to build, 
“The LORD, the God of Israel, says, ‘Just as my anger and fury were poured out on the people of Jerusalem, so my fury will be poured out on you if you go to Egypt. You will be a horrifying sight; people will treat you with scorn and use your name as a curse. You will never see this place again.’ ” 
When Elijah finished speaking, Ahab tore his clothes, took them off, and put on sackcloth. He refused food, slept in the sackcloth, and went about gloomy and depressed. 
But even this time the king became stubborn, and again he would not let the people go.
Those who do not find me hurt themselves; : anyone who hates me loves death.”
Many men wanted to marry her, but she never remarried after the death of her husband Manasseh. 
They started out together to go back to Judah, but on the way 
Then the LORD said to Moses, 
So the LORD said to me, ‘They have made a wise request. 
But you and your sons alone shall fulfil all the responsibilities of the priesthood that concern the altar and what is in the Most Holy Place. These things are your responsibility, because I have given you the gift of the priesthood. Any unqualified person who comes near the sacred objects shall be put to death.” 
And Jesus said to his disciples, “Suppose one of you should go to a friend's house at midnight and say, ‘Friend, let me borrow three loaves of bread.  
Baalath, Tamar in the wilderness of Judah, 
You should not reveal your most private thoughts to anyone. If you do, you may as well throw away any chance of happiness.
The entrance room, the windows, and the carved palm trees were like those in the east gate. Here seven steps led up to the gate, and the entrance room was at the end facing the courtyard. 
But Raguel answered, “Stay, my son. Stay here with me. I will send messengers to your father to tell him that you are all right.” 
They were chased by hideous forms and lay paralysed as they surrendered themselves to the sudden, unexpected fear that came over them. 
The LORD is God; he has been good to us. : With branches in your hands, start the festival : and march round the altar. 
then in my anger I will turn on you and again make your punishment seven times worse than before. 
The spies went into the hills and hid. The king's men looked for them all over the countryside for three days, but they did not find them, so they returned to Jericho. 
But he had a friend, a very shrewd man named Jonadab, the son of David's brother Shammah. 
But people die, and that is the end of them; : they die, and where are they then? 
Say to all the nations, “The LORD is king! : The earth is set firmly in place and cannot be moved; : he will judge the peoples with justice.” 
I will go and stand by my father in the field where you are hiding, and I will speak to him about you. If I find out anything, I will let you know.” 
For this curtain they made five posts fitted with hooks, covered their tops and their rods with gold, and made five bronze bases for the posts.
The total length of the wall on all four sides of the city is 9,000 metres. The name of the city from now on will be, “The-LORD-is-Here!”
“All the Jews know how I have lived ever since I was young. They know how I have spent my whole life, at first in my own country and then in Jerusalem. 
Amzi, Bani, Shemer, 
We were so proud of ourselves — we bragged about how rich we were — and now, what good has it done us? 
They cry for help, but God doesn't answer, : for they are proud and evil. 
the very thing that the twelve tribes of our people hope to receive, as they worship God day and night. And it is because of this hope, Your Majesty, that I am being accused by these Jews! 
When that time comes, seven women will grab hold of one man and say, “We can feed and clothe ourselves, but please let us say you are our husband, so that we won't have to endure the shame of being unmarried.” 
They went to attack the army of Benjamin, and placed the soldiers in position facing the city. 
We know what it means to fear the Lord, and so we try to persuade others. God knows us completely, and I hope that in your hearts you know me as well. 
Then the people of Judah and of Jerusalem will go to the gods to whom they offer sacrifices and will cry out to them for help. But those gods will not be able to save them when this destruction comes. 
Then Manoah asked, “When your words come true, what must the boy do? What kind of a life must he lead?” 
Then the Israelites made a vow to the LORD: “If you will let us conquer these people, we will unconditionally dedicate them and their cities to you and will destroy them.” 
As for me, I have been the last to come on duty, as if going through vineyards to gather whatever the grape-pickers had left behind. But the Lord blessed me, and I did well, like a grape-picker who has filled the winepress. 
And so they praised God because of me.
But it is on your account that we are being killed all the time, : that we are treated like sheep to be slaughtered. 
Anyone who gives good guidance to his son can not only take pride in him among his friends, but he can make his enemies jealous. 
Many people will be purified. Those who are wicked will not understand but will go on being wicked; only those who are wise will understand. 
It was about twelve o'clock when the sun stopped shining and darkness covered the whole country until three o'clock; 
God sent darkness on the country, : but the Egyptians did not obey his command. 
and that is why the place is called Bochim. There they offered sacrifices to the LORD. 
So the king left, accompanied by all his family and officials, except for ten concubines, whom he left behind to take care of the palace. 
He shall put his hand on its head and kill it on the north side of the altar, where the animals for the burnt offerings are killed. 
The LORD said to Aaron, “Remember that I am giving you all the special contributions made to me that are not burnt as sacrifices. I am giving them to you and to your descendants as the part assigned to you for ever. 
They have never known God's secrets, never hoped for the rewards of a holy and blameless life. 
Will he beg you to let him go? : Will he plead with you for mercy? 
Do not worship other gods, any of the gods of the peoples around you. 
like the Son of Man, who did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life to redeem many people.” 
“The LORD will bless your corn crops and the food you prepare from them. 
The king of Babylonia stands by the signpost at the fork of the road. To discover which way to go, he shakes the arrows; he consults his idols; he examines the liver of a sacrificed animal. 
From James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ: : Greetings to all God's people scattered over the whole world. 
You have given him his heart's desire; : you have answered his request. 
Then the choir began to sing his praises, and the beautiful music rang out. 
The king asked, “How have we honoured and rewarded Mordecai for this?” : His servants answered, “Nothing has been done for him.” 
Everything I owned was seized and put in the royal treasury. My wife Anna and my son Tobias were all I had left. 
I thought about all the people who live in this world, and I realized that somewhere among them there is a young man who will take the king's place. 
For what credit is there if you endure the beatings you deserve for having done wrong? But if you endure suffering even when you have done right, God will bless you for it. 
Why do the nations plan rebellion? : Why do people make their useless plots? 
and said to him, “Because you have deliberately broken your covenant with me and disobeyed my commands, I promise that I will take the kingdom away from you and give it to one of your officials. 
Or have you rejected us for ever? : Is there no limit to your anger?
the father of Shimeah. Their descendants lived in Jerusalem near other families of their clan. 
The LORD kept on opposing them until he had destroyed them all. 
The kings of the earth practised sexual immorality with her, and the people of the world became drunk from drinking the wine of her immorality.” 
and to praise and glorify the LORD every morning and every evening 
Meraioth, Amariah, Ahitub, 
Now serve the LORD your God with all your heart and soul. Start building the Temple, so that you can place in it the Covenant Box of the LORD and all the other sacred objects used in worshipping him.”
“Bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance of the Tent of my presence, and tell them to take a ritual bath. 
But if the thief is not found, the one who was keeping the valuables is to be brought to the place of worship and there he must take an oath that he has not stolen the other one's property. 
then the flood would have carried us away, : the water would have covered us, 
he cancelled the unfavourable record of our debts with its binding rules and did away with it completely by nailing it to the cross. 
I wish that you were my brother, : that my mother had nursed you at her breast. : Then, if I met you in the street, : I could kiss you and no one would mind. 
But don't be glad because the evil spirits obey you; rather be glad because your names are written in heaven.” 
We are descendants of slaves, : but our enemies turned and ran; : we killed them like runaway slaves. : They were destroyed by the army of the Lord. 
When he is king, the people of Judah will be safe, and the people of Israel will live in peace. He will be called ‘The LORD Our Salvation’. 
When you bring to the LORD an offering of the first corn harvested, offer roasted grain or ground meal. 
He is careful to keep it from falling, because he knows it is only an idol and needs help; it cannot help itself. 
But I will use my power and will punish Egypt by doing terrifying things there. After that he will let you go. 
The border then went out to the hill north of Ekron, turned towards Shikkeron, past Mount Baalah, and on to Jamnia. It ended at the Mediterranean Sea, 
and as your shoes the readiness to announce the Good News of peace. 
“When you make an altar for the LORD your God, do not put beside it a wooden symbol of the goddess Asherah. 
I will praise you, my defender. : My refuge is God, : the God who loves me.
Although the people had not yet started to rebuild the Temple, they began on the first day of the seventh month to burn sacrifices to the LORD. 
Many men, claiming to speak for me, will come and say, ‘I am the Messiah!’ and they will deceive many people.  
You have taken away his royal sceptre : and hurled his throne to the ground. 
When Jesus was twelve years old, they went to the festival as usual. 
Poor people work hard and have nothing to show for it, and when they rest, they are still poor. 
This is true, because I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has commanded me what I must say and speak.  
Jesus saw that he was sad and said, “How hard it is for rich people to enter the Kingdom of God!  
His people became so sinful that they were exiled from their land. 
There is no excuse for a person who runs himself down. No one respects a person who has no respect for himself. 
“The priests are to teach my people the difference between what is holy and what is not, and between what is ritually clean and what is not. 
I fast two days a week, and I give you a tenth of all my income.’ 
Let me teach you how great is God's power, : and explain what Almighty God has planned. 
I praise you, God; don't remain silent! 
All who wanted to, both men and women, brought decorative pins, earrings, rings, necklaces, and all kinds of gold jewellery and dedicated them to the LORD. 
Then face the world again, firm and courageous. 
But the LORD said to me, “Do not say that you are too young, but go to the people I send you to, and tell them everything I command you to say. 
Whether those rebels listen to you or not, they will know that a prophet has been among them. 
The Philistines fought a battle against the Israelites on Mount Gilboa. Many Israelites were killed there, and the rest of them, including King Saul and his sons, fled. 
Moab's might has been crushed; its power has been destroyed. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
I will make Egypt the most desolate country in the world. For forty years the cities of Egypt will lie in ruins, ruins worse than those of any other city. I will make the Egyptians refugees. They will flee to every country and live among other peoples.” 
Joshua said to them, “You are your own witnesses to the fact that you have chosen to serve the LORD.” : “Yes,” they said, “we are witnesses.” 
We cannot understand the great things he does, : and to his miracles there is no end. 
Everything else that Jehoshaphat did, all his bravery and his battles, are recorded in The History of the Kings of Judah. 
And Jesus went on to say, “And so I tell you: make friends for yourselves with worldly wealth, so that when it gives out, you will be welcomed in the eternal home.  
Wicked people are wrong when they say to themselves, “Our life is short and full of sorrow, and when its end comes, there is no escape. No one has ever been known to come back from the world of the dead. 
People who do not get along with others are interested only in themselves; they will disagree with what everyone else knows is right. 
Can you hold one with a rope and make him plough? : Or make him pull a harrow in your fields? 
So Eleazar the priest took the firepans and had them beaten into thin plates to make a covering for the altar. 
I asked, “LORD, why is the land devastated and dry as a desert, so that no one travels through it? Who is wise enough to understand this? To whom have you explained it so that he can tell others?” 
Righteousness is the road to life; wickedness is the road to death.
Do your best to help Zenas the lawyer and Apollos to get started on their travels, and see to it that they have everything they need. 
But you, man of God, avoid all these things. Strive for righteousness, godliness, faith, love, endurance, and gentleness. 
And you yourselves know how he has proved his worth, how he and I, like a son and his father, have worked together for the sake of the gospel. 
For I am the least of all the apostles — I do not even deserve to be called an apostle, because I persecuted God's church. 
(The following clans of experts in writing and copying documents lived in the town of Jabez: the Tirathites, Shimeathites, and Sucathites. They were Kenites who had intermarried with the Rechabites.)
Since what I do is what I don't want to do, this shows that I agree that the Law is right. 
When King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon took King Jehoiachin of Judah into exile from Jerusalem, along with a group of captives, Mordecai was among them. 
Rachel and Leah answered Jacob, “There is nothing left for us to inherit from our father. 
Micaiah went on: “Now listen to what the LORD says! I saw the LORD sitting on his throne in heaven, with all his angels standing beside him. 
“Take advantage of every opportunity to praise the Lord your God. Ask him to make you prosper in whatever you set out to do. He does not give his wisdom to the people of any other nation. He is the source of all good things, but he can also destroy you and bring you to certain death, if he wishes. : “Remember all my instructions. Don't forget them for one minute. 
The land along the Mediterranean coast had been settled by people from the island of Crete. They had destroyed the Avvim, the original inhabitants, and had taken over all their land as far south as the city of Gaza.) 
A ruler without good sense will be a cruel tyrant. One who hates dishonesty will rule a long time. 
O God, how I wish you would kill the wicked! : How I wish violent people would leave me alone! 
If I announce that an evil person is going to die but you do not warn him to change his ways so that he can save his life, he will die, still a sinner, and I will hold you responsible for his death. 
Then Jehoiada led Joash out, placed the crown on his head, and gave him a copy of the laws governing kingship. Then Joash was anointed and proclaimed king. The people clapped their hands and shouted, “Long live the king!” 
So then, if we have food and clothes, that should be enough for us. 
Those who survive will sing for joy. Those in the west will tell how great the LORD is, 
King Agrippa! I can speak to you with all boldness, because you know about these things. I am sure that you have taken notice of every one of them, for this thing has not happened hidden away in a corner. 
At the same time the rest of the Israelites left, and every man went back to his own tribe and family and to his own property. 
“Make a breastpiece for the High Priest to use in determining God's will. It is to be made of the same materials as the ephod and with similar embroidery. 
He will be your spokesman and speak to the people for you. Then you will be like God, telling him what to say. 
He trusts in God and claims to be God's Son. Well, then, let us see if God wants to save him now!” 
Marry and have children. Then let your children get married, so that they also may have children. You must increase in numbers and not decrease. 
Then he opened their minds to understand the Scriptures, 
The fish will die, and the river will stink so much that the Egyptians will not be able to drink from it.’ ” 
The light of day is too bright for the wicked : and restrains them from deeds of violence. 
“Listen to me, you stubborn people : who think that victory is far away. 
Nor should you be called ‘Leader’, because your one and only leader is the Messiah.  
So the king of Syria will lay siege to a fortified city and capture it. The soldiers of Egypt will not continue to fight; even the best of them will not have enough strength. 
“No,” she answered. “To send me away like this is a greater crime than what you just did!” : But Amnon would not listen to her; 
A gossip can never keep a secret. Stay away from people who talk too much. 
These are the soldiers from Manasseh who went over to David's side when he was returning: Adnah, Jozabad, Jediael, Michael, Jozabad, Elihu, and Zillethai. In Manasseh they had all commanded units of a thousand men. 
And he commanded us to preach the gospel to the people and to testify that he is the one whom God has appointed judge of the living and the dead. 
Be wise enough not to wear yourself out trying to get rich. 
and instructed them: “Be careful in pronouncing judgement; you are not acting on human authority, but on the authority of the LORD, and he is with you when you pass sentence. 
The grain offerings, the sin offerings and the repayment offerings will be the priests' food, and they are to receive everything in Israel that is set apart for me. 
Abraham had a concubine named Keturah, who bore him six sons: Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. Jokshan had two sons: Sheba and Dedan. 
Moses continued to speak to Korah. “Listen, you Levites! 
Now Amaziah, you boast that you have defeated the Edomites, but I advise you to stay at home. Why stir up trouble that will only bring disaster on you and your people?” 
I will make its rulers drunk — : men of wisdom, leaders, and soldiers. : They will go to sleep and never wake up. : I, the king, have spoken, : I am the LORD Almighty. 
A nation will fall if it has no guidance. Many advisers mean security. 
As soon as Peter and John were set free, they returned to their group and told them what the chief priests and the elders had said. 
The locusts looked like horses ready for battle; on their heads they had what seemed to be crowns of gold, and their faces were like human faces. 
may the LORD make your name a curse among your people. May he cause your genital organs to shrink and your stomach to swell up. 
Not even a human being who has been unconditionally dedicated may be bought back; he must be put to death. 
Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they Abraham's descendants? So am I. 
These twelve men were sent out by Jesus with the following instructions: “Do not go to any Gentile territory or any Samaritan towns.  
You fed them with the fat of your sacrifices : and offered them wine to drink. : Let them come and help you now; : let them run to your rescue. 
Who gave Israel up to the looters? : It was the LORD himself, against whom we sinned! : We would not live as he wanted us to live : or obey the teachings he gave us. 
while others grabbed the servants, beat them, and killed them.  
Israel, you brought this on yourself! : You deserted me, the LORD your God, : while I was leading you along the way. 
“Even your brother or your son or your daughter or the wife you love or your closest friend may secretly encourage you to worship other gods, gods that you and your ancestors have never worshipped. 
Save me from sinking in the mud; : keep me safe from my enemies, : safe from the deep water. 
O LORD, our God, you answered your people; : you showed them that you are a God who forgives, : even though you punished them for their sins. 
So Naaman said, “If you won't accept my gift, then let me have two mule-loads of earth to take home with me, because from now on I will not offer sacrifices or burnt offerings to any god except the LORD. 
Don't punish me any more! : I am about to die from your blows. 
You never know what a king is thinking; his thoughts are beyond us, like the heights of the sky or the depths of the ocean. 
So all the Israelites accompanied the Covenant Box up to Jerusalem with shouts of joy, the sound of trumpets, horns, and cymbals, and the music of harps.  
and when he got a good look at David, he was filled with scorn for him because he was just a nice, good-looking boy. 
Are you going to keep on talking for ever? : Do you always have to have the last word? 
and said to one another, “Yes, now we are suffering the consequences of what we did to our brother; we saw the great trouble he was in when he begged for help, but we would not listen. That is why we are in this trouble now.” 
The totals of the offerings brought by the twelve leaders for the dedication of the altar were as follows: : — twelve silver bowls and twelve silver basins weighing a total of 27.6 kilogrammes : — twelve gold dishes weighing a total of 1.32 kilogrammes, filled with incense : — twelve bulls, twelve rams, and twelve one-year-old lambs, together with the grain offerings that go with them, for the burnt offerings : — twelve goats for the sin offerings : — 24 bulls, sixty rams, sixty goats, sixty one-year-old lambs, for the fellowship offerings 
Who decided how large it would be? : Who stretched the measuring line over it? : Do you know all the answers? 
Among the descendants of Hebron, Hashabiah and 1,700 of his relatives, all outstanding men, were put in charge of the administration of all religious and civil matters in Israel west of the River Jordan. 
Do your best to win full approval in God's sight, as a worker who is not ashamed of his work, one who correctly teaches the message of God's truth. 
The heathen were filled with rage, : because the time for your anger has come, : the time for the dead to be judged. : The time has come to reward your servants, the prophets, : and all your people, all who have reverence for you, : great and small alike. : The time has come to destroy those who destroy the earth!” 
If there are ten men left in a family, they will die. 
So the prophet from Judah went home with the old prophet and had a meal with him. 
They handed him the head and the other pieces of the animal, and he burnt them on the altar. 
Many enemies were round me; : but I destroyed them by the power of the LORD! 
May God give you dew from heaven and make your fields fertile! May he give you plenty of corn and wine! 
Then Moses and Aaron bowed to the ground in front of all the people. 
Lebaoth, Shilhim, Ain, and Rimmon: 29 cities in all, along with the towns round them. 
Then Jesus told them this parable: “Think of the fig tree and all the other trees.  
He rescues the poor who call to him, : and those who are needy and neglected. 
Then I said, “LORD, you understand. Remember me and help me. Let me have revenge on those who persecute me. Do not be so patient with them that they succeed in killing me. Remember that it is for your sake that I am insulted. 
The Word became a human being and, full of grace and truth, lived among us. We saw his glory, the glory which he received as the Father's only Son. 
The LORD informed me of the plots that my enemies were making against me. 
You may think everything you do is right, but the LORD judges your motives. 
with power over the king's officials : and authority to instruct his advisers. 
The LORD says to the nations, “Now I will act. I will show how powerful I am. 
I heard what he said, but I did not understand it. So I asked, “But, sir, how will it all end?” 
Hope will not go with me : when I go down to the world of the dead.
a human face that was turned towards the palm tree on one side, and a lion's face that was turned towards the tree on the other side. It was like this all round the wall, 
Love the LORD your God, obey him and be faithful to him, and then you and your descendants will live long in the land that he promised to give your ancestors, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.”
He is to keep this book near him and read from it all his life, so that he will learn to honour the LORD and to obey faithfully everything that is commanded in it. 
I knew that you would prove to be stubborn, : as rigid as iron and unyielding as bronze. 
You will not go bareheaded or barefoot or mourn or cry. You will waste away because of your sins, and you will groan to one another. 
Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar, 
They live out their lives in peace : and quietly die without suffering. 
Then the clans of Judah will say to themselves, ‘The LORD God Almighty gives strength to his people who live in Jerusalem.’ 
“ ‘Do not steal. 
Tobias then called Raphael and said to him, “Here is half of what you helped me bring back. You have earned it; have a safe journey home.” 
This, then, is what Moses said to Aaron, the sons of Aaron, and to all the people of Israel.
But when they came to Jesus, they saw that he was already dead, so they did not break his legs. 
This is exactly why God punished your ancestors when he brought destruction on this city. And yet you insist on bringing more of God's anger down on Israel by profaning the Sabbath.” 
The LORD Almighty says, “I will appear among you to judge, and I will testify at once against those who practise magic, against adulterers, against those who give false testimony, those who cheat employees out of their wages, and those who take advantage of widows, orphans, and foreigners — against all who do not respect me. 
“I will make a highway across the mountains : and prepare a road for my people to travel. 
For in union with Christ you have become rich in all things, including all speech and all knowledge. 
He named the place Bethel. 
you must answer, ‘They belong to your servant Jacob. He sends them as a present to his master Esau. Jacob himself is just behind us.’ ” 
When the king had crossed, escorted by all the people of Judah and half the people of Israel, he went on to Gilgal, and Chimham went with him. 
When the people saw Jesus, they were greatly surprised, and ran to him and greeted him. 
to say to the people of Israel, “I am the LORD your God. 
When the people of Jabesh in Gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul, 
No one stood by me the first time I defended myself; all deserted me. May God not count it against them! 
When that day comes, fresh water will flow from Jerusalem, half of it to the Dead Sea and the other half to the Mediterranean. It will flow all the year round, in the dry season as well as the wet. 
Assyria will be destroyed in war, but not by human power. The Assyrians will run from battle, and their young men will be made slaves. 
He also made two bronze capitals, each one 2.2 metres tall, to be placed on top of the columns. 
Then I said to all the men and the women who had answered me in this way, 
and many sons were born to him there. : His wife Bathsheba, daughter of Ammiel, bore him four sons: Shimea, Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon. 
Achior told them what had been said at Holofernes' war council, what he himself had said to the Assyrian officers, and how Holofernes had boasted about what he would do to the Israelites. 
But God raised him from death three days later and caused him to appear, 
You may also buy the children of the foreigners who are living among you. Such children born in your land may become your property, 
But we had to celebrate and be happy, because your brother was dead, but now he is alive; he was lost, but now he has been found.’ ”
So the men seized Achior and took him out of the camp into the valley. From there they led him into the mountains, as far as the spring which was below Bethulia. 
LORD, you have made our nation grow, : enlarging its territory on every side, : and this has brought you honour. 
They took the flocks, the cattle, the donkeys, and everything else in the city and in the fields. 
Hear my prayer, O God; : don't turn away from my plea! 
So he called out, ‘Father Abraham! Take pity on me, and send Lazarus to dip his finger in some water and cool my tongue, because I am in great pain in this fire!’ 
He shall burn on the altar the fat of the animal for the sin offering. 
“Take the stone away!” Jesus ordered. : Martha, the dead man's sister, answered, “There will be a bad smell, Lord. He has been buried four days!” 
and said to Jacob, “I'm starving; give me some of that red stuff.” (That is why he was called Edom.) 
“But we still serve the LORD our God and have not abandoned him. Priests descended from Aaron perform their duties, and Levites assist them. 
Even when the Israelites became stronger, they did not drive out all the Canaanites, but they did force them to work for them. 
He followed the wicked example of King Ahab and the other kings of Israel, because he had married one of Ahab's daughters. He sinned against the LORD, 
“I wait for your deliverance, LORD. 
The king called his general staff and senior officers together and reported in detail how those countries had betrayed him. He and his officers agreed that everyone who had refused to help him in the war should be put to death. Then he described to them his plan of attack. 
So he called one of the servants and asked him, ‘What's going on?’  
In the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh there were 44,760 soldiers, well trained in the use of shields, swords, and bows. 
The Hall of the Forest of Lebanon was 44 metres long, 22 metres wide, and 13.5 metres high. It had three rows of cedar pillars, fifteen in each row, with cedar beams resting on them. The ceiling was of cedar, extending over storerooms, which were supported by the pillars. 
But now I am going to him who sent me, yet none of you asks me where I am going.  
They asked, “Is there any group out of all the tribes of Israel that did not go to the gathering in the LORD's presence at Mizpah?” (They had taken a solemn oath that anyone who had not gone to Mizpah would be put to death.) 
The fish in the river died, and it smelt so bad that the Egyptians could not drink from it. There was blood everywhere in Egypt. 
The hopes of good people lead to joy, but wicked people can look forward to nothing. 
and present your case to the levitical priests and to the judge who is in office at that time, and let them decide the case. 
Teach them to your children. Repeat them when you are at home and when you are away, when you are resting and when you are working. 
Even though now there are as many people of Israel as there are grains of sand by the sea, only a few will come back. Destruction is in store for the people, and it is fully deserved. 
Tobit praised God and told everyone how God in his mercy had restored his sight. : When Tobit met Sarah, he greeted her, “Welcome, daughter! Praise God for bringing you to us, my daughter. May God bless your father, as well as you and my son Tobias. Welcome to your new home. May you always be blessed with good health and happiness. Come in, my daughter!” : It was a day of great joy for all the Jews of Nineveh. 
So Ezra brought it to the place where the people had gathered — men, women, and the children who were old enough to understand. 
One day Jesse said to David, “Take ten kilogrammes of this roasted grain and these ten loaves of bread, and hurry with them to your brothers in the camp. 
the Judean army was defeated, and the soldiers fled to their homes. 
King Solomon used forced labour to build the Temple and the palace, to fill in land on the east side of the city, and to build the city wall. He also used it to rebuild the cities of Hazor, Megiddo, and Gezer. 
I wait eagerly for the LORD's help, : and in his word I trust. 
The crowds paid close attention to what Philip said, as they listened to him and saw the miracles that he performed. 
Jesus was in Bethany at the house of Simon, a man who had suffered from a dreaded skin disease. While Jesus was eating, a woman came in with an alabaster jar full of a very expensive perfume made of pure nard. She broke the jar and poured the perfume on Jesus' head. 
And now I have told you, but you are disobeying everything that the LORD our God sent me to tell you. 
I will crush his foes : and kill everyone who hates him. 
when they pray, God will answer; : they will worship God with joy; : God will set things right for them again. 
There is so little honesty that those who stop doing evil find themselves the victims of crime.” : The LORD has seen this, and he is displeased that there is no justice. 
And so it was that Joseph, a Levite born in Cyprus, whom the apostles called Barnabas (which means “One who Encourages”), 
In my anger I trampled whole nations and shattered them. I poured out their lifeblood on the ground.” 
For a husband has authority over his wife just as Christ has authority over the church; and Christ is himself the Saviour of the church, his body. 
They can't wait to do something bad. They're always ready to kill. 
Hezekiah answered, “It's easy to make the shadow go forward ten steps! Make it go back ten steps.” 
You alone, and none of the others, are to come near me. The people are not even to come up the mountain.” 
How I long for your saving help, O LORD! : I find happiness in your law. 
and so he said to him, “My father is trying to kill you. Please be careful tomorrow morning; hide in some secret place and stay there. 
The angel answered, “The heart and liver can be burnt and used to chase away a demon or an evil spirit that is tormenting someone. The attacks will stop immediately, and the person will never be troubled again. 
He gave them the lands of other peoples : and let them take over their fields, 
He was greatly surprised, because the people did not have faith. : Then Jesus went to the villages round there, teaching the people. 
my persecutions, and my sufferings. You know all that happened to me in Antioch, Iconium, and Lystra, the terrible persecutions I endured! But the Lord rescued me from them all. 
The Lord made an eternal covenant with him, promising that life would never again be destroyed by a flood. 
Be completely faithful to the LORD.” 
He will rescue you if you are innocent, : if what you do is right.
and sent out a raven. It did not come back, but kept flying around until the water was completely gone. 
It is as Isaiah had said before, “If the Lord Almighty had not left us some descendants, we would have become like Sodom, we would have been like Gomorrah.” 
But if in your heart you are jealous, bitter, and selfish, don't sin against the truth by boasting of your wisdom. 
I gave you his kingdom and his wives; I made you king over Israel and Judah. If this had not been enough, I would have given you twice as much. 
Even if I go through the deepest darkness, : I will not be afraid, LORD, : for you are with me. : Your shepherd's rod and staff protect me. 
But the LORD answered, “No. If anyone kills you, seven lives will be taken in revenge.” So the LORD put a mark on Cain to warn anyone who met him not to kill him. 
Then Moses, together with the leaders of Israel, said to the people, “Obey all the instructions that I am giving you today. 
because I will give you such words and wisdom that none of your enemies will be able to refute or contradict what you say.  
He said to Abraham, “Here is my whole land; live anywhere you like.” 
The LORD is merciful and good; : our God is compassionate. 
The various families of the clan of Gershon received a total of thirteen cities with their pasture lands. 
and David said to the Amalekite, “You brought this on yourself. You condemned yourself when you admitted that you killed the one whom the LORD chose to be king.” 
A search was made for Ahaziah, and he was found hiding in Samaria. They took him to Jehu and put him to death. But they did bury his body out of respect for his grandfather King Jehoshaphat, who had done all he could to serve the LORD. : No member of Ahaziah's family was left who could rule the kingdom. 
Ephraim: 20,800 men famous in their own clans; 
So now send us the wheat, barley, wine, and olive oil that you promised. 
Seraiah, when you finish reading this book to the people, then tie it to a stone and throw it into the River Euphrates, 
Who can defeat the world? Only the person who believes that Jesus is the Son of God. 
The LORD told me to sing this song of sorrow for two princes of Israel
But if her husband forbids her to fulfil the vow when he hears about it, she is not required to keep it. The LORD will forgive her. 
for planning skilful designs and working them in gold, silver and bronze; 
Instead, we always speak as God wants us to, because he has judged us worthy to be entrusted with the Good News. We do not try to please people, but to please God, who tests our motives. 
What is more, the court officials went in to pay their respects to His Majesty King David, and said, ‘May your God make Solomon even more famous than you, and may Solomon's reign be even more prosperous than yours.’ Then King David bowed in worship on his bed 
In this way the people of Israel assigned towns for the Levites to live in, together with the pasture lands round the towns. 
“Mortal man, prophesy. Announce what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying to the Ammonites, who are insulting Israel. Say to them: : ‘A sword is ready to destroy; : It is polished to kill, to flash like lightning. 
Last of all he appeared also to me — even though I am like someone whose birth was abnormal.  
Later on, war broke out again with the Philistines at Gezer. This was when Sibbecai from Hushah killed a giant named Sippai, and the Philistines were defeated. 
Meanwhile the whole meeting was in an uproar: some people were shouting one thing, others were shouting something else, because most of them did not even know why they had come together. 
and takes possession of the land. After that, you may return, because you will have fulfilled your obligation to the LORD and to your fellow-Israelites. Then the LORD will acknowledge that this land east of the Jordan is yours. 
on account of their sins. : Our faults defeat us, : but you forgive them. 
You are ready to accuse your own relatives : and to find fault with them. 
Many of the people lived in towns near their farms. Those who were of the tribe of Judah lived in Kiriath Arba, Dibon, and Jekabzeel, and in the villages near these cities. 
Abram took his wife Sarai, his nephew Lot, and all the wealth and all the slaves they had acquired in Haran, and they started out for the land of Canaan. : When they arrived in Canaan, 
After that, all the people of Israel gathered round him, and Moses gave them all the laws that the LORD had given him on Mount Sinai. 
as you wait for the Day of God and do your best to make it come soon — the Day when the heavens will burn up and be destroyed, and the heavenly bodies will be melted by the heat. 
When the baby was a week old, they came to circumcise him, and they were going to name him Zechariah, after his father. 
You are doomed! You think you are wise, so very clever. 
Some Pharisees came to him and tried to trap him by asking, “Does our Law allow a man to divorce his wife for whatever reason he wishes?” 
Get two reliable men, the priest Uriah and Zechariah son of Jeberechiah, to serve as witnesses.” 
Early the next morning the people built an altar there, offered fellowship sacrifices and burnt some sacrifices whole. 
I have lived too long : with people who hate peace! 
they risked their lives for me. I am grateful to them — not only I, but all the Gentile churches as well. 
In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, always give thanks for everything to God the Father. 
The LORD said to me, “Jeremiah, go and announce my message at the People's Gate, through which the kings of Judah enter and leave the city; then go to all the other gates of Jerusalem. 
And whenever it stopped, he would say, “Return, LORD, to the thousands of families of Israel.”
The priests shall not profane the sacred offerings 
Be on your guard! Make certain that you do not forget, as long as you live, what you have seen with your own eyes. Tell your children and your grandchildren 
Sheva was the court secretary; Zadok and Abiathar were the priests, 
If you refuse, I will punish your country by covering it with frogs. 
And so, without a sword, David defeated and killed Goliath with a sling and a stone! 
I will give them fertile fields and put an end to hunger in the land. The other nations will not sneer at them any more. 
The wise may die young, but the wicked will never understand that this is the Lord's way of taking them off to safety. 
Abishai said to David, “God has put your enemy in your power tonight. Now let me plunge his own spear through him and pin him to the ground with just one blow — I won't have to strike twice!” 
but could not find his body. They came back saying they had seen a vision of angels who told them that he is alive. 
My ancestors destroyed the cities of Gozan, Haran, and Rezeph, and killed the people of Betheden who lived in Telassar, and none of their gods could save them. 
I write you this brief letter with the help of Silas, whom I regard as a faithful fellow-Christian. I want to encourage you and give my testimony that this is the true grace of God. Stand firm in it. 
Then he sent a third slave; the tenants wounded him, too, and threw him out.  
After they had conquered the land, the entire community of Israel assembled at Shiloh and set up the Tent of the LORD's presence. 
The Sovereign LORD said to me, “Mortal man, listen to what I tell you. When the altar is built, you are to dedicate it by burning sacrifices on it and by sprinkling on it the blood of the animals that were sacrificed. 
Around dead bodies the eagles gather, : and the young eagles drink the blood.
By the living LORD, your God, I swear that the king has made a search for you in every country in the world. Whenever the ruler of a country reported that you were not in his country, Ahab would require that ruler to swear that you could not be found. 
Land is also to be set aside for the ruling prince. From the western boundary of the holy area it will extend west to the Mediterranean Sea; and from the eastern boundary it will extend to the eastern border of the country, so that its length will be the same as the length of one of the areas allotted to the tribes of Israel. 
They also attacked the camps of some shepherds, capturing large numbers of sheep and camels. Then they returned to Jerusalem.
“No,” Jesus answered, “even though I do testify on my own behalf, what I say is true, because I know where I came from and where I am going. You do not know where I came from or where I am going.  
As soon as they had eaten it, they were given understanding and realized that they were naked; so they sewed fig leaves together and covered themselves. 
He led the people of Israel out of Egypt; : his love is eternal; 
Accept the teaching he gives; : keep his words in your heart. 
Some of the teachers of the Law spoke up, “A good answer, Teacher!” 
They have to harvest fields they don't own, : and gather grapes in the vineyards of the wicked. 
Jesus said to the servants, “Fill these jars with water.” They filled them to the brim, 
and at the age of fifty he shall retire. 
It is his strength that conquered the sea; : by his skill he destroyed the monster Rahab. 
and you will die with the people there. 
The LORD's unfailing love and mercy still continue, 
In it were all kinds of animals, reptiles, and wild birds. 
“The king of Egypt will be strong. One of his generals, however, will be even stronger and rule a greater kingdom. 
When we heard this, we and the others there begged Paul not to go to Jerusalem. 
The priests who were heads of families totalled 1,760. They were experts in all the work carried on in the Temple. 
and said, “Hagar, slave of Sarai, where have you come from and where are you going?” : She answered, “I am running away from my mistress.” 
When the people saw this, they threw themselves on the ground and exclaimed, “The LORD is God; the LORD alone is God!” 
Yes, strangers will take all your wealth, and what you have worked for will belong to someone else. 
No matter in which direction a tree falls, it will lie where it fell. When the clouds are full, it rains. 
When your ancestors went to Egypt, there were only seventy of them. But now the LORD your God has made you as numerous as the stars in the sky.
You gave my father strength to beget me; : you made me grow in my mother's womb. 
Praise him, sun and moon; : praise him, shining stars. 
Enthusiasm without knowledge is not good; impatience will get you into trouble. 
Then we, your people, the sheep of your flock, : will thank you for ever : and praise you for all time to come.
I was determined to live wisely and was devoted to the cause of goodness. I have no regrets. 
He will not break off a bent reed : or put out a flickering lamp. : He will bring lasting justice to all. 
When you have all you want, think what it is like to be hungry, what it is to be poor. 
When Shechem son of Hamor the Hivite, who was chief of that region, saw her, he took her and raped her. 
How long must I endure trouble? : How long will sorrow fill my heart day and night? : How long will my enemies triumph over me? 
I ruled over all the earth and the ocean waves, : over every nation, over every people. 
The LORD commanded Moses to say to the Aaronite priests, “No priest is to make himself ritually unclean by taking part in the funeral ceremonies when a relative dies, 
The reputation of a modest person goes before him, as lightning before thunder. 
So when the goats bred in front of the branches, they produced young that were streaked, speckled, and spotted. 
The LORD will make an example of him before all the tribes of Israel and will bring disaster on him in accordance with all the curses listed in the covenant that is written in this book of the LORD's teachings. 
“And so I tell all of you: what you prohibit on earth will be prohibited in heaven, and what you permit on earth will be permitted in heaven. 
Nations will tell about their wisdom, : and God's people will praise them. 
He gave his own armour to David for him to wear: a bronze helmet, which he put on David's head, and a coat of armour. 
Sismai, Shallum, 
They cursed him and said, “You are that fellow's disciple; but we are Moses' disciples. 
Sanballat, Tobiah, and the people of Arabia, Ammon, and Ashdod heard that we were making progress in rebuilding the wall of Jerusalem and that the gaps in the wall were being closed, and they were very angry. 
“I have chosen a man who lives in the east; : I will bring him to attack from the north. : He tramples on rulers as if they were mud, : like a potter trampling clay. 
Then the LORD said to Abraham, “There are terrible accusations against Sodom and Gomorrah, and their sin is very great. 
Then Moses said to Aaron and to his sons Eleazar and Ithamar, “Do not leave your hair uncombed or tear your clothes to show that you are in mourning. If you do, you will die, and the LORD will be angry with the whole community. But all your fellow-Israelites are allowed to mourn this death caused by the fire which the LORD sent. 
Open my eyes, so that I may see : the wonderful truths in your law. 
But the LORD was with Joseph and blessed him, so that the jailer was pleased with him. 
“Come to me, all of you who are tired from carrying heavy loads, and I will give you rest.  
So I would prefer that the younger widows get married, have children, and take care of their homes, so as to give our enemies no chance of speaking evil of us. 
But I will pass judgement on the people that they will serve, and afterwards your descendants will come out of that country and will worship me in this place.’ 
“I have told you this while I am still with you.  
They took it from Abinadab's home on the hill and placed it on a new cart. Uzzah and Ahio, sons of Abinadab, were guiding the cart, 
the people of Judah will regret that they ever trusted that unreliable nation, a nation that fails them when they expect help.” 
and tell him that I, the Sovereign LORD, am his enemy. 
Next, the man took me to the south side, and there we saw another gateway. He measured its inner walls and its entrance room, and they were the same as the others. 
David said to him, “Sell me your threshing place, so that I can build an altar to the LORD, to stop the epidemic. I'll give you the full price.” 
After the reading from the Law of Moses and from the writings of the prophets, the officials of the synagogue sent them a message: “Brothers and sisters, we want you to speak to the people if you have a message of encouragement for them.” 
So Haman was hanged on the gallows that he had built for Mordecai. Then the king's anger cooled down.
Don't criticize someone if he is already turning away from sin. Remember that we are all guilty. 
But the people of Jerusalem said, : “The LORD has abandoned us! : He has forgotten us.” 
My eyes are tired from watching for what you promised, : while I ask, “When will you help me?” 
From east to west everyone will fear him and his great power. He will come like a rushing river, like a strong wind. 
He demanded, “Do you think that words can take the place of military skill and might? Who do you think will help you rebel against Assyria? 
Jesus answered, “Haven't you read the scripture that says that in the beginning the Creator made people male and female?  
Raguel then said to Sarah, “Go with your husband and live in his parents' house. From now on they are as much your parents as your own mother and I are. Let me hear only good things about you as long as I live.” After saying goodbye he sent them on their way. : Then Edna said to Tobias, “Tobias my dear child, may the Lord bring you safely home. And may he let me live to see your children. The Lord is my witness; I am placing my daughter in your care. Never, at any time in your life, do anything that would break her heart. Have a safe journey, Tobias. From now on, Sarah is your wife and I am your mother. May we all prosper as long as we live.” Then Edna kissed them both and sent them safely on their way.
Jesus used parables to tell all these things to the crowds; he would not say a thing to them without using a parable. 
So Ahaz took the gold from the Temple, the palace, and the homes of the leaders of the people, and gave it to the emperor, but even this did not help. 
and is never satisfied with what he has. Greed will shrivel up a person's soul. 
Did not I myself make all these things?’ 
He kept his promise to the people of Israel : with loyalty and constant love for them. : All people everywhere have seen the victory of our God. 
and two priests, Benaiah and Jahaziel, were to blow trumpets regularly in front of the Covenant Box. 
When the dragon realized that he had been thrown down to the earth, he began to pursue the woman who had given birth to the boy. 
When Aaron sacrifices the bull as the sin offering for himself and his family, 
“Where do you want us to get it ready?” they asked him. 
gave thanks to God, broke it, and said, “This is my body, which is for you. Do this in memory of me.”  
We cannot understand the great things he does, : and to his miracles there is no end. 
This city will not protect you as a pot protects the meat in it. I will punish you wherever you may be in the land of Israel. 
God does all this again and again; 
But when they believed Philip's message about the good news of the Kingdom of God and about Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. 
His blessings overflow like the Nile, : enriching the world in a fertile flood. 
His lightning lights up the world; : the earth sees it and trembles. 
He said: : “Look! Waters are rising in the north : and will rush like a river in flood. : They will cover the land and everything on it, : cities and the people who live there. : People will call out for help; : everyone on earth will cry bitterly. 
For our gifts of knowledge and of inspired messages are only partial; 
“A sound is heard in Ramah, : the sound of bitter weeping. : Rachel is crying for her children; : she refuses to be comforted, : for they are dead.” 
They taught what was right, not what was wrong. They lived in harmony with me; they not only did what was right themselves, but they also helped many others to stop doing evil. 
Some time later my wife became pregnant. When our son was born, the LORD said to me, “Name him ‘Quick-Loot-Fast-Plunder’. 
because he was teaching his disciples: “The Son of Man will be handed over to those who will kill him. Three days later, however, he will rise to life.” 
If you are eager to give, God will accept your gift on the basis of what you have to give, not on what you haven't. 
The group of believers was one in mind and heart. None of them said that any of their belongings were their own, but they all shared with one another everything they had. 
so don't concern yourself with them. After all, what has been shown to you is beyond human power to understand. 
The LORD said, “The destruction that will come on Edom will be so terrible that everyone who passes by will be shocked and terrified. 
At once Jesus knew what they were thinking, so he said to them, “Why do you think such things?  
But I will punish you for what you have done. I will set your palace on fire, and the fire will burn down everything round it. I, the LORD, have spoken.”
“Put to death any man who has sexual relations with an animal. 
If someone has fled to a city of refuge, do not allow him to make a payment in order to return home before the death of the High Priest. 
He is the key that opens all the hidden treasures of God's wisdom and knowledge. 
While the Egyptians were still mourning at the graves of their dead, they forgot why all this had happened, and they foolishly decided that the people they had begged to leave were runaways. So they chased after them. They were led into this as part of the punishment they deserved, so that they would suffer the rest of the torments they were due to receive. 
You have six days in which to do your work, but the seventh day is to be sacred, a solemn day of rest dedicated to me, the LORD. Anyone who does any work on that day is to be put to death. 
But ever since we stopped sacrificing to the Queen of Heaven and stopped pouring out wine offerings to her, we have had nothing, and our people have died in war and of starvation.” 
Each day, for as long as he lived, he was given a regular allowance for his needs.
Jesus answered them, “The men and women of this age marry,  
But now their descendants are destroyed, : All the way from Heshbon to Dibon, : From Nashim to Nophah, near Medeba.” 
Every Sunday each of you must put aside some money, in proportion to what you have earned, and save it up, so that there will be no need to collect money when I come. 
So they sent messengers to Shiloh and fetched the Covenant Box of the LORD Almighty, who is enthroned above the winged creatures. And Eli's two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, came along with the Covenant Box. 
He said, “I was born with nothing, and I will die with nothing. The LORD gave, and now he has taken away. May his name be praised!” 
James and his brother John, the sons of Zebedee (Jesus gave them the name Boanerges, which means “Men of Thunder”); 
Now give them this answer: ‘I swear that as surely as I live, I will do to you just what you have asked. I, the LORD, have spoken. 
In your goodness you told them what they should do; : you fed them with manna and gave them water to drink. 
But I know there is someone in heaven : who will come at last to my defence. 
who will mock him, spit on him, whip him, and kill him; but three days later he will rise to life.” 
His sword will be covered with their blood and fat, like the blood and fat of lambs and goats that are sacrificed. The LORD will offer this sacrifice in the city of Bozrah; he will make this a great slaughter in the land of Edom. 
Even if you beat fools until they're half dead, you still can't beat their foolishness out of them. 
Then Boaz said to the leaders and all the others there, “You are all witnesses today that I have bought from Naomi everything that belonged to Elimelech and to his sons Chilion and Mahlon. 
“I made my offerings today and have the meat from the sacrifices. 
When he rises up, even the strongest are frightened; : they are helpless with fear. 
Like his father Manasseh, he sinned against the LORD, and he worshipped the idols that his father had worshipped. 
Come, praise the LORD, : all his servants, : all who serve in his Temple at night. 
The chariot commanders saw that he was not the king of Israel, so they stopped pursuing him. 
and will give you as much security as money can. Wisdom keeps you safe — this is the advantage of knowledge. 
She saw the food that was served at his table, the living quarters for his officials, the organization of his palace staff and the uniforms they wore, the servants who waited on him at feasts, and the sacrifices he offered in the Temple. It left her breathless and amazed. 
Abraham was the great ancestor of many nations; his reputation was faultless.  
“Do not use my name for evil purposes, for I, the LORD your God, will punish anyone who misuses my name. 
Sound judgement, good advice, and grey hair go together beautifully. 
This area will be the share the ruling prince will have in the land of Israel, so that he will no longer oppress the people, but will let the rest of the country belong to the tribes of Israel. 
“All we have here are five loaves and two fish,” they replied. 
But as for you people, turn round and go back into the desert along the road to the Gulf of Aqaba.’ 
He won't let me get my breath; : he has filled my life with bitterness. 
Then people go out to do their work : and keep working until evening. 
And in order to please the Assyrian emperor, Ahaz also removed from the Temple the platform for the royal throne and closed up the king's private entrance to the Temple. 
In his eyes even the moon is not bright, : nor the stars pure. 
So John went throughout the whole territory of the River Jordan, preaching, “Turn away from your sins and be baptized, and God will forgive your sins.” 
From every city of Judah people hurried to Jerusalem to ask the LORD for guidance, 
“My money has been returned to me,” he called to his brothers. “Here it is in my sack!” Their hearts sank, and in fear they asked one another, “What has God done to us?” 
As soon as Judas took the bread, Satan entered him. Jesus said to him, “Be quick about what you are doing!”  
He took all the survivors to Babylonia, where they served him and his descendants as slaves until the rise of the Persian Empire. 
The LORD will cut them down as trees in the heart of the forest are cut down with an axe, as even the finest trees of Lebanon fall!
and you repented and humbled yourself before me, tearing your clothes and weeping, when you heard how I threatened to punish Jerusalem and its people. I will make it a terrifying sight, a place whose name people will use as a curse. But I have heard your prayer, 
The ends of the poles could be seen by anyone standing directly in front of the Most Holy Place, but from nowhere else. (The poles are still there today.) 
Benaiah son of Jehoiada was in charge of David's bodyguard; and King David's sons held high positions in his service.
that I will sharpen my flashing sword : and see that justice is done. : I will take revenge on my enemies : and punish those who hate me. 
and have cheered me up, just as they cheered you up. Such men as these deserve notice. 
The king of Israel was walking by on the city wall when a woman cried out, “Help me, Your Majesty!” 
People were so delighted with the beauty of these things that they thought they must be gods, but they should have realized that these things have a master and that he is much greater than all of them, for he is the creator of beauty, and he created them. 
The king said to him, “Come with me to Jerusalem, and I will take care of you.” 
But he will say again, ‘I don't know where you come from. Get away from me, all you wicked people!’  
That place was named Kibroth Hattaavah (which means “Graves of Craving”), because there they buried the people who had craved meat. 
Absalom lived two years in Jerusalem without seeing the king. 
He scraped the honey out into his hands and ate it as he walked along. Then he went to his father and mother and gave them some. They ate it, but Samson did not tell them that he had taken the honey from the dead body of a lion. 
I am happy about the coming of Stephanas, Fortunatus, and Achaicus; they have made up for your absence 
Then take him to the door of your house and there pierce his ear; he will then be your slave for life. Treat your female slave in the same way. 
Crumble it up and pour the oil on it when you present it as an offering. 
The brothers had been seated at table, facing Joseph, in the order of their age from the eldest to the youngest. When they saw how they had been seated, they looked at one another in amazement. 
Gossip brings anger just as surely as the north wind brings rain. 
In only a little while I will finish punishing you, and then I will destroy them. 
on the 24th day of the sixth month of the second year that Darius was emperor.
When they eat, there is nothing left over, : but now their prosperity comes to an end. 
Honour the Lord and respect the priests. Supply them with what you have been commanded to give: the first produce, the offering for sin, the shoulder of the sacrificial animal — all the required sacrifices and offerings. 
Help me to understand your laws, : and I will meditate on your wonderful teachings. 
God punishes them, because what can be known about God is plain to them, for God himself made it plain. 
I invited travellers into my home : and never let them sleep in the streets. 
Plan carefully and you will have plenty; if you act too quickly, you will never have enough. 
Praise the LORD, all you heavenly powers, : you servants of his, who do his will! 
Put your investments in several places — many places, in fact — because you never know what kind of bad luck you are going to have in this world. 
As for the king himself, this is what I, the LORD God of Israel, say: you listened to what is written in the book, 
I gave them your message, and the world hated them, because they do not belong to the world, just as I do not belong to the world.  
My children, the end is near! You were told that the Enemy of Christ would come; and now many enemies of Christ have already appeared, and so we know that the end is near. 
And even though they could find no reason to pass the death sentence on him, they asked Pilate to have him put to death. 
A teacher of the Law was there who heard the discussion. He saw that Jesus had given the Sadducees a good answer, so he came to him with a question: “Which commandment is the most important of all?” 
No one has seen him, no one can describe him; : no one can praise him as he deserves. 
The messenger rode out to Jehu and said to him, “The king wants to know if you come as a friend.” : “That's none of your business!” Jehu answered. “Fall in behind me.” : The guard on the watchtower reported that the messenger had reached the group but was not returning. 
What's your trouble?” : She answered, “The other day this woman here suggested that we eat my child, and then eat her child the next day. 
The Spirit says clearly that some people will abandon the faith in later times; they will obey lying spirits and follow the teachings of demons. 
So from then on the guard let them continue to eat vegetables instead of what the king provided. 
Shimon had four sons: Amnon, Rinnah, Benhanan, and Tilon. : Ishi had two sons: Zoheth and Benzoheth. 
The others turned and ran towards the open country to the Rock of Rimmon. 5,000 of them were killed along the road. The Israelites continued to pursue the rest to Gidom, killing 2,000. 
He will destroy the tall cedars of Lebanon and all the oaks in the land of Bashan. 
You Gentiles are like the branch of a wild olive tree that is broken off and then, contrary to nature, is joined to a cultivated olive tree. The Jews are like this cultivated tree; and it will be much easier for God to join these broken-off branches to their own tree again. 
For those will be ‘The Days of Punishment’, to make all that the Scriptures say come true.  
He gives his message to his people, : his instructions and laws to Israel. 
The disaster that came to my people brought horror; : loving mothers boiled their own children for food. 
If you pay attention when you are corrected, you are wise. 
The dead man sat up and began to talk, and Jesus gave him back to his mother. 
But you Kenites will be destroyed : When Assyria takes you captive.” 
The kings built the thresholds and doorposts of their palace right against the thresholds and doorposts of my Temple, so that there was only a wall between us. They disgraced my holy name by all the disgusting things they did, and so in my anger I destroyed them. 
Let me go through all your flocks today and take every black lamb and every spotted or speckled young goat. That is all the wages I want. 
For this reason, ever since I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all God's people, 
“Tell us,” they asked Jesus, “are you the one John said was going to come, or should we expect someone else?” 
You have committed far greater sins than those who ruled before you. You have rejected me and have aroused my anger by making idols and metal images to worship. 
This is a true saying: if a man is eager to be a church leader, he desires an excellent work. 
Esau's son Reuel was the ancestor of the following tribes: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. These were all descendants of Esau's wife Basemath. 
I will smash the city gates of Damascus and remove the inhabitants of the Valley of Aven and the ruler of Betheden. The people of Syria will be taken away as prisoners to the land of Kir.” 
Any male of the priestly families may eat this offering; it is very holy. 
Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him. “I do want to,” he answered. “Be clean!” At once the disease left the man. 
Rid yourselves, then, of all evil; no more lying or hypocrisy or jealousy or insulting language. 
They will praise his holy name : and proclaim the greatness of all he does. 
reptile or fish. 
So God has pronounced a curse on the earth. Its people are paying for what they have done. Fewer and fewer remain alive. 
Then in the first year of the reign of King Cyrus as emperor of Babylonia, Cyrus issued orders for the Temple to be rebuilt. 
Jesus sternly ordered the evil spirits not to tell anyone who he was. 
May the God who gives us peace make you holy in every way and keep your whole being — spirit, soul, and body — free from every fault at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Then out of the storm the LORD spoke to Job. 
For forty days after his death he appeared to them many times in ways that proved beyond doubt that he was alive. They saw him, and he talked with them about the Kingdom of God. 
and his power will fill you with terror. 
Since Christ suffered physically, you too must strengthen yourselves with the same way of thinking that he had; because whoever suffers physically is no longer involved with sin. 
“But the tax collector stood at a distance and would not even raise his face to heaven, but beat on his breast and said, ‘God, have pity on me, a sinner!’  
The disciples went and preached everywhere, and the Lord worked with them and proved that their preaching was true by the miracles that were performed. 
His reign ended when King Neco of Egypt took him prisoner in Riblah, in the land of Hamath, and made Judah pay 3.4 tonnes of silver and 34 kilogrammes of gold as tribute. 
The ten horns you saw, and the beast, will hate the prostitute; they will take away everything she has and leave her naked; they will eat her flesh and destroy her with fire. 
Now then, if what you did today to Gideon and his family was sincere and honest, then be happy with Abimelech and let him be happy with you. 
The people of Judah had a song they sang: : “We grow weak carrying burdens; : There's so much rubble to take away. : How can we build the wall today?” 
They replied, “We agree. The LORD is our witness.” 
His eldest son, Amram, was the father of Aaron and Moses. (Aaron and his descendants were set apart to be in charge of the sacred objects for ever, to burn incense in the worship of the LORD, to serve him, and to bless the people in his name. 
He defied the Israelites, and Jonathan, the son of David's brother Shammah, killed him. 
Jehu went back to his fellow-officers, who asked him, “Is everything all right? What did that crazy fellow want with you?” : “You know what he wanted,” Jehu answered. 
Listen, people of Israel, to this funeral song which I sing over you
keep me from lying, and let me be neither rich nor poor. So give me only as much food as I need. 
he must confess his sin and make full repayment, plus an additional twenty per cent, to the person he has wronged. 
Yes, you must humbly return to God : and put an end to all the evil : that is done in your house. 
and gave the following order to Hilkiah the priest, to Ahikam son of Shaphan, to Achbor son of Micaiah, to Shaphan, the court secretary, and to Asaiah, the king's attendant
He alone performs great miracles; : his love is eternal. 
After this, Paul left Athens and went on to Corinth. 
At sacred places on the mountain tops they offer sacrifices, and on the hills they burn incense under tall, spreading trees, because the shade is so pleasant! : “As a result, your daughters serve as prostitutes, and your daughters-in-law commit adultery. 
What the land produces goes to the kings : that you put over us because we sinned. : They do as they please with us and our livestock, : and we are in deep distress!” 
Esau was the ancestor of the following Edomite tribes: Timna, Alvah, Jetheth, Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon, Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar, Magdiel, and Iram. The area where each of these tribes lived was known by the name of the tribe.
Come to the point and say it all in a few words. Show that you are well-informed, but stay quiet. 
Our enemies are doomed! They have robbed and betrayed, although no one has robbed them or betrayed them. But their time to rob and betray will end, and they themselves will become victims of robbery and treachery. 
With the first lamb offer one kilogramme of fine wheat flour mixed with one litre of pure olive oil. Pour out one litre of wine as an offering. 
Any fool can start arguments; the honourable thing is to stay out of them. 
I promised to let you live there, but not one of you will, except Caleb and Joshua. 
Honest deeds are like a tree that bears marvellous fruit. Wisdom is like a root that is alive and can always send up new shoots. 
Judah became the Lord's holy people, : Israel became his own possession. 
My advice is that you bring all the Israelites together from one end of the country to the other, as many as the grains of sand on the seashore, and that you lead them personally in battle. 
The earth will mourn; : the sky will grow dark. : The LORD has spoken : and will not change his mind. : He has made his decision : and will not turn back. 
Death gets its power to hurt from sin, and sin gets its power from the Law. 
But neither the king nor any of his officials who heard all this was afraid or showed any sign of sorrow. 
It will make you old before your time. Jealousy and anger will shorten your life. 
Their instructions are a shining light; their correction can teach you how to live. 
When I was in trouble, they attacked me, : but the LORD protected me. 
So Naaman went with his horses and chariot, and stopped at the entrance to Elisha's house. 
Nebuchadnezzar carried off some of the treasures of the Temple and put them in his palace in Babylon. 
So they are no longer two, but one. No human being must separate, then, what God has joined together.” 
Then Josiah ordered the High Priest Hilkiah, his assistant priests, and the guards on duty at the entrance to the Temple to bring out of the Temple all the objects used in the worship of Baal, of the goddess Asherah, and of the stars. The king burnt all these objects outside the city near the valley of the Kidron, and then had the ashes taken to Bethel. 
so I called together Johanan, all the army leaders who were with him, and all the other people. 
When John saw many Pharisees and Sadducees coming to him to be baptized, he said to them, “You snakes — who told you that you could escape from the punishment God is about to send? 
Again she had a son and named him Shelah. Judah was at Achzib when the boy was born. 
at the age of 25, and he ruled in Jerusalem for 29 years. His mother was Jehoaddin, from Jerusalem. 
Our children will live in safety, : and under your protection : their descendants will be secure.
Kohath had four sons: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. 
But instead, you have been brought down to the deepest part of the world of the dead. 
The soil itself makes the plants grow and bear fruit; first the tender stalk appears, then the ear, and finally the ear full of corn.  
Fortunate are those who live to see you come, as well as those who have already died in love, for we too shall live. 
So Baruch read the LORD's words in the Temple exactly as I had told him to do. 
But now I am planning to bless the people of Jerusalem and Judah. So don't be afraid. 
Put some pure incense on each row, as a token food offering to the LORD to take the place of the bread. 
it is to be your permanent possession. The foreigners who are living among you and who have had children born here are also to receive their share of the land when you divide it. They are to be treated like full Israelite citizens and are to draw lots for shares of the land along with the tribes of Israel. 
She will have nothing to do with conceited people; she never enters the mind of liars. 
“Let's go out to the fields,” Jonathan answered. So they went, 
on the eastern side of the Jordan, opposite Jericho.” 
The LORD rules over the deep waters; : he rules as king for ever. 
He and the others with him were all amazed at the large number of fish they had caught. 
The kingdom that God has given you : will last for ever and ever. : You rule over your people with justice; 
But if the spot remains unchanged and does not spread and is light in colour, it is not a dreaded skin disease. The priest shall pronounce him ritually clean, because it is only a scar from the burn. 
Since this is true, how much more is accomplished by the blood of Christ! Through the eternal Spirit he offered himself as a perfect sacrifice to God. His blood will purify our consciences from useless rituals, so that we may serve the living God. 
The Lord is a warrior who ends war. : He rescued me from my pursuers : and brought me back to his people's camp. 
the entire territory of Naphtali; the territories of Ephraim and Manasseh; the territory of Judah as far west as the Mediterranean Sea; 
Some day all that you have worked for will be divided up and given to others. 
Then they picked Jonah up and threw him into the sea, and it calmed down at once. 
his father David had never reprimanded him about anything. He was a very handsome man. 
Without delay I hurry : to obey your commands. 
The protector of Israel : never dozes or sleeps. 
When Solomon heard what Shimei had done, 
The LORD himself has said, ‘I am going to make you a terror to yourself and to your friends, and you will see them all killed by the swords of their enemies. I am going to put all the people of Judah under the power of the king of Babylonia; he will take some away as prisoners to his country and put others to death. 
And since you are within those limits, we were not going beyond them when we came to you, bringing the Good News about Christ. 
in the same way as shepherds take care of their sheep that were scattered and are brought together again. I will bring them back from all the places where they were scattered on that dark, disastrous day. 
As soon as this letter from Artaxerxes was read to Rehum, Shimshai, and their associates, they hurried to Jerusalem and forced the Jews to stop rebuilding the city. 
The next day Moses was settling disputes among the people, and he was kept busy from morning till night. 
You are our father. Our ancestors Abraham and Jacob do not acknowledge us, but you, LORD, are our father, the one who has always rescued us. 
So the Council warned them even more strongly and then set them free. They saw that it was impossible to punish them, because the people were all praising God for what had happened. 
We are not going to win the favour of our enemies by surrendering to them now. If we do surrender, the Lord our God will see that we are put to shame. 
But Paul said to the police officers, “We were not found guilty of any crime, yet they whipped us in public — and we are Roman citizens! Then they threw us in prison. And now they want to send us away secretly. Not likely! The Roman officials themselves must come here and let us out.” 
I gave you a land that you had never cultivated and cities that you had not built. Now you are living there and eating grapes from vines that you did not plant, and olives from trees that you did not plant.’ 
He answered, “You know that I should have become king and that everyone in Israel expected it. But it happened differently, and my brother became king, because it was the LORD's will. 
You bind chains on my feet; : you watch every step I take, : and even examine my footprints. 
As for me, the Father chose me and sent me into the world. How, then, can you say that I blaspheme because I said that I am the Son of God?  
Each of these twelve stones is to have engraved on it the name of one of the sons of Jacob, to represent the tribes of Israel. 
Those who do not take up their cross and follow in my steps are not fit to be my disciples.  
These clans numbered 60,500 men. 
Elisha then left his oxen, ran after Elijah, and said, “Let me kiss my father and mother goodbye, and then I will go with you.” : Elijah answered, “All right, go back. I'm not stopping you!” 
they exchanged the glory of God : for the image of an animal that eats grass. 
The Levites shall then put their hands on the heads of the two bulls; one is to be offered as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering, in order to perform the ritual of purification for the Levites. 
Trying to teach a fool is like gluing a broken pot together again, like waking someone out of a deep sleep. 
When priests have been in the Temple and want to go to the outer courtyard, they must leave in these rooms the holy clothing they wore while serving the LORD. They must put on other clothes before going out to the area where the people gather.” 
Righteous people will see this and be afraid; : then they will laugh at you and say, 
“I am telling you the truth,” Jesus said. “What Moses gave you was not  the bread from heaven; it is my Father who gives you the real bread from heaven.  
Jonah was very unhappy about this and became angry. 
People consult idols and fortune tellers, but the answers they get are lies and nonsense. Some interpret dreams, but only mislead you; the comfort they give is useless. So the people wander about like lost sheep. They are in trouble because they have no leader. 
In front of the Tent the king worshipped the LORD by offering sacrifices on the bronze altar; he had a thousand animals killed and burnt whole on it. 
Can anyone teach God, : who judges even those in high places? 
Praise the LORD, all living creatures! : Praise the LORD!
and so you will be carried away as prisoners. Your leaders will starve to death, and the common people will die of thirst. 
It is because the Lord made them different by setting them apart as religious holidays and festivals. 
And the Lord continued, “Listen to what that corrupt judge said.  
The Egyptian army, with all the horses, chariots, and drivers, pursued them and caught up with them where they were camped by the Red Sea near Pi Hahiroth and Baal Zephon. 
The Good News was promised long ago by God through his prophets, as written in the Holy Scriptures. 
the priest shall estimate its value according to the number of years until the next Year of Restoration, and the person must pay the price that very day; the money belongs to the LORD. 
What is unreal can no more produce something real than what is dirty can produce something clean. 
“If the king demands that you prove yourselves by performing a miracle, tell Aaron to take his stick and throw it down in front of the king, and it will turn into a snake.” 
“When that day comes, you will not ask me for anything. I am telling you the truth: the Father will give you whatever you ask him for in my name.    
He sacrificed his sons in the Valley of Hinnom as burnt offerings. He practised divination and magic and consulted fortune tellers and mediums. He sinned greatly against the LORD and stirred up his anger. 
But don't be too severe with anyone, and never be unfair. 
they knew from experience that God's word is good, and they had felt the powers of the coming age. 
Hear me when I cry to you for help, : when I lift my hands towards your holy Temple. 
These are the regulations for Nazirites; but if a Nazirite promises an offering beyond what his or her vow requires them to give, they must fulfil exactly the promise they made. 
If she is too self-willed, be on guard, and don't be surprised if she disappoints you. 
We leave this world just as we entered it — with nothing. In spite of all our work there is nothing we can take with us. 
When Jesus returned to the other side of the lake, the people welcomed him, because they had all been waiting for him. 
Gideon said to him, “If I may ask, sir, why has all this happened to us if the LORD is with us? What about all the wonderful things that our fathers told us the LORD used to do — how he brought them out of Egypt? The LORD has abandoned us and left us to the mercy of the Midianites.” 
But some worthless people said, “How can this fellow do us any good?” They despised Saul and did not bring him any gifts.
Be persistent in prayer, and keep alert as you pray, giving thanks to God. 
So do not be afraid of these people. The LORD your God is with you; he is a great God and one to be feared. 
Listen! News has come! : There is a great commotion in a nation to the north; : its army will turn the cities of Judah into a desert, : a place where jackals live.” 
Early the next morning they started out to invade the hill country, saying, “Now we are ready to go to the place which the LORD told us about. We admit that we have sinned.” 
The priest shall throw the blood against the sides of the altar at the entrance of the Tent and burn the fat to produce a smell that is pleasing to the LORD. 
They stay in the places assigned to them by the Holy One : and never relax their dutiful watch. 
There will be a highway there, : called “The Road of Holiness”. : No sinner will ever travel that road; : no fools will mislead those who follow it. 
These are the descendants of Kohath from generation to generation: Amminadab, Korah, Assir, 
Consider the people of Israel; those who eat what is offered in sacrifice share in the altar's service to God. 
He is to pay her father the bride price of fifty pieces of silver, and she is to become his wife, because he forced her to have intercourse with him. He can never divorce her as long as he lives. 
This man Enoch achieved in a few years' time a perfection that other people could never attain in a complete lifetime. 
He will not let you fall; : your protector is always awake. 
Tonight, the three of you must stand guard at the gate so that my slave woman and I can leave the town. And before the day comes on which you have promised to surrender, the Lord will use me to rescue the people of Israel. 
How hard it is to find a capable wife! She is worth far more than jewels! 
Helez, Eleasah, 
The LORD gave Moses and Aaron 
The LORD spoke to me. 
he does not need to honour his father.  In this way you disregard God's command, in order to follow your own teaching.  
They saw what the LORD can do, : his wonderful acts on the seas. 
Do not rebel against the LORD and don't be afraid of the people who live there. We will conquer them easily. The LORD is with us and has defeated the gods who protected them; so don't be afraid.” 
After Moses had gone in, the pillar of cloud would come down and stay at the door of the Tent, and the LORD would speak to Moses from the cloud. 
“Let us praise the Lord, the God of Israel! : He has come to the help of his people and has set them free. 
love is not ill-mannered or selfish or irritable; love does not keep a record of wrongs; 
The army of exiles from northern Israel : will return and conquer Phoenicia : as far north as Zarephath. : The exiles from Jerusalem who are in Sardis : will capture the towns of southern Judah. 
Judah said to his brothers, “What will we gain by killing our brother and covering up the murder? 
They chose some men, and the king sent them in two chariots with instructions to go and find out what had happened to the Syrian army. 
I looked up and saw someone who was wearing linen clothes and a belt of fine gold. 
He sends lightning through all the sky, : but the depths of the sea remain dark. 
Now, this mystery was revealed to me, not because I am wiser than anyone else, but so that Your Majesty may learn the meaning of your dream and understand the thoughts that have come to you. 
For the Holy Spirit will teach you at that time what you should say.” 
“Though he punished you for your wickedness, : he will be merciful and bring you home : from among the nations where he scattered you. 
The LORD called Samuel again. The boy did not know that it was the LORD, because the LORD had never spoken to him before. 
And I saw that the woman was drunk with the blood of God's people and the blood of those who were killed because they had been loyal to Jesus. : When I saw her, I was completely amazed. 
the lampstand for the light and its equipment; the lamps with their oil; 
Jesus then sent him home with the order, “Don't go back into the village.” 
The LORD has an accusation to bring against the people of Judah; he is also going to punish Israel for the way her people act. He will pay them back for what they have done. 
Also the gold and silver utensils which King Nebuchadnezzar brought to Babylon from the Temple in Jerusalem are to be returned to their proper place in the Jerusalem Temple.” 
They replied, “We do not want to stone you because of any good deeds, but because of your blasphemy! You are only a man, but you are trying to make yourself God!” 
that today I will keep the promise I made to you in the name of the LORD, the God of Israel, that your son Solomon would succeed me as king.” 
Some people pretend to be rich, but have nothing. Others pretend to be poor, but own a fortune. 
As the crowd heard these words, they became furious and started shouting, “Great is Artemis of Ephesus!” 
I tell you, I will never again drink this wine until the day I drink the new wine with you in my Father's Kingdom.” 
and then lived another 840 years. He had other children 
Then he shall remove all its fat, just as the fat is removed from the sheep killed for the fellowship offerings, and he shall burn it on the altar along with the food offerings given to the LORD. In this way the priest shall offer the sacrifice for the man's sin, and he will be forgiven.
Then the Amalekites and the Canaanites who lived there attacked and defeated them, and pursued them as far as Hormah.
Honour the LORD your God by celebrating this festival for seven days at the one place of worship. Be joyful, because the LORD has blessed your harvest and your work. 
Give thanks to the LORD, because he is good; : his love is eternal. 
The LORD sent me to the gate of the Temple where the people of Judah went in to worship. He told me to stand there and announce what the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, had to say to them: “Change the way you are living and the things you are doing, and I will let you go on living here. 
The LORD spoke to me. “Mortal man,” he said, “repeat to the Israelites what they are saying: ‘We are burdened with our sins and the wrongs we have done. We are wasting away. How can we live?’ 
How happy everyone will be with plenty of water for the crops and safe pasture everywhere for the donkeys and cattle.
The next day the foot soldiers returned to the fort and left the horsemen to go on with him. 
The government officials are like wolves tearing apart the animals they have killed. They commit murder in order to get rich. 
and you will be blessed, because they are not able to pay you back. God will repay you on the day the good people rise from death.” 
Show your power, O God, : the power you have used on our behalf 
Eliab, David's eldest brother, heard David talking to the men. He was angry with David and said, “What are you doing here? Who is taking care of those sheep of yours out there in the wilderness? You cheeky brat, you! You just came to watch the fighting!” 
He has provided for us a mighty Saviour, : a descendant of his servant David. 
Unlike the covenant made with David son of Jesse, from the tribe of Judah, where the kingship passed only from father to son, the priesthood was to pass from Aaron to all his descendants. 
All the people were filled with happiness, and the city was quiet, now that Athaliah had been killed.
The LORD, who rules and protects Israel, : the LORD Almighty, has this to say: : “I am the first, the last, the only God; : there is no other god but me. 
So then, why do you now want to put God to the test by laying a load on the backs of the believers which neither our ancestors nor we ourselves were able to carry? 
The LORD said, : “Jeremiah, if you get tired racing against people, : how can you race against horses? : If you can't even stand up in open country, : how will you manage in the jungle by the Jordan? 
He is not prejudiced against the poor; when someone prays who has been wronged, the Lord listens. 
They make promises and break them; they lie, murder, steal, and commit adultery. Crimes increase, and there is one murder after another. 
Obey them all, so that everything will go well with you and so that you will continue to live in the land that you are going to occupy.
Jerusalem, you were once like silver, but now you are worthless; you were like good wine, but now you are only water. 
that the father never did. He eats sacrifices offered at forbidden shrines and seduces other men's wives. 
So every day, from dawn until the stars came out at night, half of us worked on the wall, while the other half stood guard with spears. 
I have also provided a place in the Temple for the Covenant Box containing the stone tablets of the covenant which the LORD made with our ancestors when he brought them out of Egypt.” 
These terms seemed fair to Hamor and his son Shechem, 
“Put a curse on Meroz,” says the angel of the LORD, : “a curse, a curse on those who live there. : They did not come to help the LORD, : come as soldiers to fight for him.” 
If you meet your obligations, you will always be able to borrow what you need. 
To purify the house, he shall take two birds, some cedar wood, a red cord, and a sprig of hyssop. 
Laban named it Jegar Sahadutha, while Jacob named it Galeed.  
I have seen everything done in this world, and I tell you, it is all useless. It is like chasing the wind. 
In Egypt he killed all the firstborn : of people and animals alike. 
The foremen realized that they were in trouble when they were told that they had to make the same number of bricks every day as they had made before. 
They both got into the boat, and the wind died down. 
You must not eat anything that lives in the water and does not have fins and scales. 
There we found a ship that was going to Phoenicia, so we went aboard and sailed away. 
A city's population may grow because of the wisdom of one person, while a whole tribe of lawless people disappears. 
When he threatens the pillars that hold up the sky, : they shake and tremble with fear. 
No one turns to you in prayer; no one goes to you for help. You have hidden yourself from us and have abandoned us because of our sins. 
So Joab went to King David and told him what Absalom had said. The king sent for Absalom, who went to him and bowed down to the ground in front of him. The king welcomed him with a kiss.
that you do not sin by making for yourselves an idol in any form at all — whether man or woman, 
The LORD spoke to me. 
LORD, when you left the mountains of Seir, : when you came out of the region of Edom, : the earth shook, and rain fell from the sky. : Yes, water poured down from the clouds. 
Four of the leading men of the Northern Kingdom, Azariah son of Jehohanan, Berechiah son of Meshillemoth, Jehizkiah son of Shallum, and Amasa son of Hadlai also opposed the actions of the army. 
All of them are skilful with the sword; : they are battle-hardened veterans. : Each of them is armed with a sword, : on guard against a night attack. 
You have lived here only a short time, so why should I make you wander round with me? I don't even know where I'm going. Go back and take your fellow-countrymen with you — and may the LORD be kind and faithful to you.” 
Save me, LORD, from evildoers; : keep me safe from violent people. 
They left Elim and camped near the Gulf of Suez. 
Take this stick with you; for with it you will perform miracles.” 
I planted gardens and orchards, with all kinds of fruit trees in them; 
“But what do I see?” asks the LORD. : “They are turning back in terror. : Their soldiers are beaten back; : overcome with fear, they run as fast as they can : and do not look back. 
The man took me through the south gateway into the inner courtyard. He measured the gateway, and it was the same size as the gateways in the outer wall. 
We know now that you know everything; you do not need someone to ask you questions. This makes us believe that you came from God.” 
Everything else that Elah did is recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel. 
It never sees the light of day or knows what life is like, but at least it has found rest — 
I will give back to her the vineyards she had and make Trouble Valley a door of hope. She will respond to me there as she did when she was young, when she came from Egypt. 
But when the right time finally came, God sent his own Son. He came as the son of a human mother and lived under the Jewish Law, 
The Israelites accepted some food from them, but did not consult the LORD about it. 
They will not defile themselves with disgusting idols any more or corrupt themselves with sin. I will free them from all the ways in which they sin and betray me. I will purify them; they will be my people, and I will be their God. 
Daniel went at once and obtained royal permission for more time, so that he could tell the king what the dream meant. 
I am the good shepherd. As the Father knows me and I know the Father, in the same way I know my sheep and they know me. And I am willing to die for them.  
It will then go south to Harbel, east of Ain, and on to the hills on the eastern shore of Lake Galilee, 
King Nebuchadnezzar had a gold statue made, 27 metres high and nearly three metres wide, and he had it set up in the plain of Dura in the province of Babylon. 
and then the land will not reject you, as it rejected the pagans who lived there before you. 
The well dug by princes : And by leaders of the people, : Dug with a royal sceptre : And with their sticks.” : They moved from the wilderness to Mattanah, 
After many years I will order him to invade a country where the people were brought back together from many nations and have lived without fear of war. He will invade the mountains of Israel, which were desolate and deserted so long, but where all the people now live in safety. 
The work they do will be successful, and their children will not meet with disaster. I will bless them and their descendants for all time to come. 
This man, who makes idols and fragile pots from the same clay, knows better than anyone else that he is sinning. 
and in the fourth row, a beryl, a carnelian, and a jasper. These are to be mounted in gold settings. 
And our Lord poured out his abundant grace on me and gave me the faith and love which are ours in union with Christ Jesus. 
That teaching is found in the gospel that was entrusted to me to announce, the Good News from the glorious and blessed God. 
Then he said, “Daniel, don't be afraid. God has heard your prayers ever since the first day you decided to humble yourself in order to gain understanding. I have come in answer to your prayer. 
God wants you to be holy and completely free from sexual immorality. 
and so Nebuchadnezzar came with all his army and attacked Jerusalem on the tenth day of the tenth month of the ninth year of Zedekiah's reign. They set up camp outside the city, built siege walls round it, 
because our God is indeed a destroying fire.
Your righteousness will last for ever, : and your law is always true. 
Never eat more honey than you need; too much may make you vomit. 
with his strong hand, his powerful arm; : his love is eternal. 
When Saul saw David going out to fight Goliath, he asked Abner, the commander of his army, “Abner, whose son is he?” : “I have no idea, Your Majesty,” Abner answered. 
“The sons of the king of Syria will prepare for war and gather a large army. One of them will sweep on like a flood and attack an enemy fortress. 
And for the second time the Benjaminites came out of Gibeah, and this time they killed 18,000 trained Israelite soldiers. 
Show a gentle attitude towards everyone. The Lord is coming soon. 
The other half of the area is to be set aside as the possession of the Levites, who do the work in the Temple. There will be towns there for them to live in. 
‘Lord,’ I answered, ‘they know very well that I went to the synagogues and arrested and beat those who believe in you. 
Nothing can make you richer or give you greater happiness than these two things. 
Some men passed by and saw the body on the road, with the lion standing near by. They went on into Bethel and reported what they had seen. 
and to wait for his Son to come from heaven — his Son Jesus, whom he raised from death and who rescues us from God's anger that is coming.
“Take the finest spices — six kilogrammes of liquid myrrh, three kilogrammes of sweet-smelling cinnamon, three kilogrammes of sweet-smelling cane, 
Thomas said to him, “Lord, we do not know where you are going; so how can we know the way to get there?” 
Jesus answered, “Do you expect the guests at a wedding party to go without food? Of course not! As long as the bridegroom is with them, they will not do that.  
David asked the LORD, “Shall I attack the Philistines? Will you give me the victory?” : “Yes, attack!” the LORD answered. “I will give you the victory!” 
Now I did not mean pagans who are immoral or greedy or are thieves or who worship idols. To avoid them you would have to get out of the world completely. 
of the teaching about baptisms and the laying on of hands; of the resurrection of the dead and the eternal judgement. 
I warn you that if you refuse, I will punish you by sending flies on you, your officials, and your people. The houses of the Egyptians will be full of flies, and the ground will be covered with them. 
He won God's favour and asked God to allow him to provide a dwelling place for the God of Jacob.  
I will live there with them; I will be their God, and they will be my people. 
Amaziah became king at the age of 25, and he ruled in Jerusalem for 29 years. His mother was Jehoaddin from Jerusalem. 
Now I know what I will do! Then when my job is gone, I shall have friends who will welcome me in their homes.’ 
The LORD is restoring Jerusalem; : he is bringing back the exiles. 
He said this, and then stayed on in Galilee. 
Also every special contribution which the Israelites offer to the LORD belongs to the priest to whom they present it. 
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered, “Your Majesty, we will not try to defend ourselves. 
Those who trust in the LORD are like Mount Zion, : which can never be shaken, never be moved. 
The four living creatures answered, “Amen!” And the elders fell down and worshipped.
400 and eighty years after the people of Israel left Egypt, during the fourth year of Solomon's reign over Israel, in the second month, the month of Ziv, Solomon began work on the Temple. 
“Then you will be arrested and handed over to be punished and be put to death. All nations will hate you because of me.  
They brought seventy bulls, 100 sheep, and 200 lambs as burnt offerings for the LORD; 
She rewarded God's people for their hardships. She guided them on a miraculous journey. She gave them shade during the day and brilliant starlight at night. 
The officials told Saul what David had said, 
For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that he himself is doing. He will show him even greater things to do than this, and you will all be amazed.  
Canaan was also the ancestor of the Jebusites, the Amorites, the Girgashites, 
The LORD had made a covenant with them and had ordered them: “Do not worship other gods; do not bow down to them or serve them or offer sacrifices to them. 
As soon as I find out, I will come and tell you, and you can march out with your whole army. The Israelites will not be able to defend themselves against you. 
Can any of you live a bit longer  by worrying about it? 
He takes notice of our every thought : and hears our every word. 
The festival was nearly half over when Jesus went to the Temple and began teaching. 
Then the LORD said, “Put your hand inside your robe again.” He did so, and when he took it out this time, it was healthy, just like the rest of his body. 
Everything else that Jehoiakim did is recorded in The History of the Kings of Judah. 
Who made you superior to others? Didn't God give you everything you have? Well, then, how can you boast, as if what you have were not a gift? 
What I say is the truth; : lies are hateful to me. 
They were sent on their way by the church; and as they went through Phoenicia and Samaria, they reported how the Gentiles had turned to God; this news brought great joy to all the believers. 
five for the frames on the other side, and five for the frames on the west end, at the back. 
Some people brought their babies to Jesus for him to place his hands on them. The disciples saw them and scolded them for doing so, 
The LORD spoke to Moses again, “Put your hand inside your robe.” Moses obeyed; and when he took his hand out, it was diseased, covered with white spots, like snow. 
Then Jesus said to the chief priests and the officers of the temple guard and the elders who had come there to get him, “Did you have to come with swords and clubs, as though I were an outlaw?  
Then the other supervisors and the governors tried to find something wrong with the way Daniel administered the empire, but they couldn't, because Daniel was reliable and did not do anything wrong or dishonest. 
The land that is left after the city has been built in the area immediately to the south of the holy area — five kilometres by 2.5 kilometres on the east and five kilometres by 2.5 kilometres on the west — is to be used as farm land by the people who live in the city. 
David answered, “I am in a desperate situation! But I don't want to be punished by human beings. Let the LORD himself be the one to punish us, for he is merciful.” 
They put them on the shoulder straps of the ephod to represent the twelve tribes of Israel, just as the LORD had commanded Moses. 
Then he said to her, “I promise you by the living LORD, who has rescued me from all my troubles, 
None of them will have to teach his fellow-citizen to know the LORD, because all will know me, from the least to the greatest. I will forgive their sins and I will no longer remember their wrongs. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
People are fleeing to escape from swords that are ready to kill them, from bows that are ready to shoot, from all the dangers of war. 
but you will not believe, for you are not my sheep.  
One of them, named Agabus, stood up and by the power of the Spirit predicted that a severe famine was about to come over all the earth. (It came when Claudius was emperor.) 
His feet were kept in chains, : and an iron collar was round his neck, 
There is no more happy singing over wine; no one enjoys its taste any more. 
It grew bigger and bigger until it reached the sky and could be seen by everyone in the world. 
There is fighting in the streets, and sickness and hunger in the houses. Anyone who is out in the country will die in the fighting, and anyone in the city will be a victim of sickness and hunger. 
and fifty of the prophets followed them to the Jordan. Elijah and Elisha stopped by the river, and the fifty prophets stood a short distance away. 
“See that you don't despise any of these little ones. Their angels in heaven, I tell you, are always in the presence of my Father in heaven.   
A Tent was put up, the outer one, which was called the Holy Place. In it were the lampstand and the table with the bread offered to God. 
Sin is on their lips; all their words are sinful; : may they be caught in their pride! : Because they curse and lie, 
That is where they buried Abraham and his wife Sarah; that is where they buried Isaac and his wife Rebecca; and that is where I buried Leah. 
So the king sent for the midwives and asked them, “Why are you doing this? Why are you letting the boys live?” 
To be controlled by human nature results in death; to be controlled by the Spirit results in life and peace. 
I have been with you wherever you have gone, and I have defeated all your enemies as you advanced. I will make you as famous as the greatest leaders in the world. 
These are the descendants of Shem. Two years after the flood, when Shem was 100 years old, he had a son, Arpachshad. 
In the second year of the reign of King Asa of Judah, King Jeroboam's son Nadab became king of Israel, and he ruled for two years. 
Then Haggai said, “The LORD says that the same thing applies to the people of this nation and to everything they produce; and so everything they offer on the altar is defiled.” 
So the northern boundary runs from the Mediterranean eastwards to the city of Enon, with the border regions of Damascus and Hamath to the north of it. 
a day filled with the sound of war trumpets and the battle cry of soldiers attacking fortified cities and high towers. 
He cheats the poor, he robs, he keeps what a borrower gives him as security. He goes to pagan shrines, worships disgusting idols, 
Those who had seen it told the people what had happened to the man with the demons, and about the pigs. 
I would quickly defeat their enemies : and conquer all their foes. 
“My thoughts,” says the LORD, “are not like yours, : and my ways are different from yours. 
and said: ‘Cornelius! God has heard your prayer and has taken notice of your works of charity. 
With his great power the LORD warned me not to follow the path which the people were following. He said, 
He answered, “I can say only what the LORD tells me to say.” 
Jesus got into a boat, and his disciples went with him. 
Human anger does not achieve God's righteous purpose. 
Lightning flashes from the clouds, 
Now you are wrecked in the sea; : You have sunk to the ocean depths. : Your goods and all who worked for you : Have vanished with you in the sea.’ 
Gera, Shephuphan, and Huram. 
I am ready to say what's on my mind. 
In the year that Evilmerodach became king of Babylonia, he showed kindness to King Jehoiachin of Judah by releasing him from prison. This happened on the 27th day of the twelfth month of the 37th year after Jehoiachin had been taken away as prisoner. 
They pranced about like horses let out to pasture; they skipped about like lambs and praised you, Lord, for saving them. 
But Jesus said, “Leave her alone! Let her keep what she has for the day of my burial.  
Show me someone who does a good job, and I will show you someone who is better than most and worthy of the company of kings.
That night the LORD commanded Gideon, “Get up and attack the camp; I am giving you victory over it. 
You could have created new and terrible animals, that could breathe fire or roar and send out clouds of smoke, or shoot out fearful sparks from their eyes. 
You rest secure among the cedars brought from Lebanon; : but how pitiful you'll be when pains strike you, : pains like those of a woman in labour. 
God will open the way for them and lead them out of exile. They will break out of the city gates and go free. Their king, the LORD himself, will lead them out.
They were made of square panels which were set in frames, 
We despised him and rejected him; : he endured suffering and pain. : No one would even look at him — : we ignored him as if he were nothing. 
Then you will live in the land I gave your ancestors. You will be my people, and I will be your God. 
At all times carry faith as a shield; for with it you will be able to put out all the burning arrows shot by the Evil One. 
As the saying goes, before long the dense forest will become farmland, and the farmland will go back to forest. 
“What the daughters of Zelophehad request is right; give them property among their father's relatives. Let his inheritance pass on to them. 
It was the field that Abraham had bought from the Hittites; both Abraham and his wife Sarah were buried there. 
“I am God, the God of your father,” he said. “Do not be afraid to go to Egypt; I will make your descendants a great nation there. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “with one blow I am going to take away the person you love most. You are not to complain or cry or shed any tears. 
“Do not abandon me and worship idols; do not make gods of metal and worship them. I am the LORD your God. 
The clouds poured down rain; : thunder crashed from the sky, : and lightning flashed in all directions. 
That is how it is with you, my sisters and brothers. As far as the Law is concerned, you also have died because you are part of the body of Christ; and now you belong to him who was raised from death in order that we might be useful in the service of God. 
In the 37th year of the reign of King Joash of Judah, Jehoash son of Jehoahaz became king of Israel, and he ruled in Samaria for sixteen years. 
So Zadok and Abiathar took the Covenant Box back into Jerusalem and stayed there. 
He gathered all the seas into one place; : he shut up the ocean depths in storerooms. 
A wise ruler will educate his people, and his government will be orderly. 
Return, all of you who have turned away from the LORD; : he will heal you and make you faithful. : You say, “Yes, we are coming to the LORD, because he is our God. 
“But our ancestors refused to obey him; they pushed him aside and wished that they could go back to Egypt. 
The disciples had forgotten to bring enough bread and had only one loaf with them in the boat. 
Alone I walked round the circle of the sky : and walked through the ocean beneath the earth. 
Now praise the Lord, who is good, who has crowned you with glory! May he give you wisdom to judge his people fairly, so that their success and your authority may continue for all time to come.
My children, keep yourselves safe from false gods!
Now, I am taking the chains off your wrists and setting you free. If you want to go to Babylonia with me, you may do so, and I will take care of you. But if you don't want to go, you don't have to. You have the whole country to choose from, and you may go wherever you wish.” 
When King Ahaz went to Damascus to meet Emperor Tiglath Pileser, he saw the altar there and sent back to Uriah the priest an exact model of it, down to the smallest details. 
because the word of God and the prayer make it acceptable to God. 
Then Johanan and the leaders of the forces with him took charge of the people whom Ishmael had taken away as prisoners from Mizpah after murdering Gedaliah — soldiers, women, children, and eunuchs. 
Rich people are always finding new friends, but the poor cannot keep the few they have. 
“If you do evil and reject the LORD, he will bring on you disaster, confusion, and trouble in everything you do, until you are quickly and completely destroyed. 
and even when the Babylonian ambassadors came to inquire about the unusual event that had happened in the land, God let Hezekiah go his own way only in order to test his character. 
After he had been king for a while, Joash decided to have the Temple repaired. 
The people of Judah killed Amon's assassins and made his son Josiah king. 
So Saul asked God, “Shall I attack the Philistines? Will you give us victory?” But God did not answer that day. 
“You are in charge of the king's descendants and you have at your disposal chariots, horses, weapons, and fortified cities. So then, as soon as you receive this letter, 
Even children show what they are by what they do; you can tell if they are honest and good. 
There has been enough time for you to be teachers — yet you still need someone to teach you the first lessons of God's message. Instead of eating solid food, you still have to drink milk. 
With faithfulness and love he leads : all who keep his covenant and obey his commands. 
In the eighteenth year of the reign of King Jehoshaphat of Judah, Joram son of Ahab became king of Israel, and he ruled in Samaria for twelve years. 
Only twelve months later, while he was walking about on the roof of his royal palace in Babylon, 
So Moses and Aaron went to the king and said to him, “The LORD, the God of the Hebrews, says ‘How much longer will you refuse to submit to me? Let my people go, so that they may worship me. 
I have made a solemn promise : never to look with lust at a woman. 
If your axe is blunt and you don't sharpen it, you have to work harder to use it. It is more sensible to plan ahead. 
for then he would have had to suffer many times ever since the creation of the world. Instead, now when all ages of time are nearing the end, he has appeared once and for all, to remove sin through the sacrifice of himself. 
He assigned 70,000 of them to transport materials and 80,000 to cut stones in the mountains, and appointed 3,600 supervisors to make sure the work was done.
And when you ask, you do not receive it, because your motives are bad; you ask for things to use for your own pleasures. 
But before you know it, you that have conquered others will be in debt yourselves and be forced to pay interest. Enemies will come and make you tremble. They will plunder you! 
So Holofernes left the king and called together all the commanders, generals, and officers of the Assyrian army. 
That whole generation also died, and the next generation forgot the LORD and what he had done for Israel. 
So the Pharisees left the synagogue and met at once with some members of Herod's party, and they made plans to kill Jesus. 
You know of the great event that took place throughout the land of Israel, beginning in Galilee after John preached his message of baptism. 
So the assembly sent 12,000 of their bravest men with the orders, “Go and kill everyone in Jabesh, including the women and children. 
I will praise him as long as I live; : I will sing to my God all my life. 
She knows and understands everything, and will guide me intelligently in what I do. Her glory will protect me. 
They should have desired the joy he gives; : they should have constantly prayed to him. 
But the LORD said to him, “Peace. Don't be afraid. You will not die.” 
Righteous people will always have security, but the wicked will not survive in the land. 
Use sound words that cannot be criticized, so that your enemies may be put to shame by not having anything bad to say about us. 
Abraham's son Isaac had two sons, Esau and Jacob. 
Everything else that Pekah did is recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel. 
How wonderful are the good things : you keep for those who honour you! : Everyone knows how good you are, : how securely you protect those who trust you. 
But if I do not know the language being spoken, those who use it will be foreigners to me and I will be a foreigner to them. 
“Don't worry,” Elijah said to her. “Go ahead and prepare your meal. But first make a small loaf from what you have and bring it to me, and then prepare the rest for you and your son. 
This calls for endurance on the part of God's people, those who obey God's commandments and are faithful to Jesus. 
except the tree that gives knowledge of what is good and what is bad. You must not eat the fruit of that tree; if you do, you will die the same day.” 
He set his people free : and made an eternal covenant with them. : Holy and mighty is he! 
Now then, denounce them, mortal man.” 
But if there is something more that you want, it will have to be settled in a legal meeting of citizens. 
Some women were there, looking on from a distance. Among them were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of the younger James and of Joseph, and Salome. 
The Lord let him capture King Jehoiakim and seize some of the temple treasures. He took some prisoners back with him to the temple of his gods in Babylon, and put the captured treasures in the temple storerooms. 
When a calf or a lamb or a kid is born, it must not be taken from its mother for seven days, but after that it is acceptable as a food offering. 
Everything is pure to those who are themselves pure; but nothing is pure to those who are defiled and unbelieving, for their minds and consciences have been defiled. 
In Jerusalem his inventors made equipment for shooting arrows and for throwing large stones from the towers and corners of the city wall. His fame spread everywhere, and he became very powerful because of the help he received from God. 
“Make an ornament of pure gold and engrave on it ‘Dedicated to the LORD’. 
Joshua and the men of Israel slaughtered them, although some managed to find safety inside their city walls and were not killed. 
All the people stood up together and said, “None of us, whether he lives in a tent or in a house, will go home. 
Command those who are rich in the things of this life not to be proud, but to place their hope, not in such an uncertain thing as riches, but in God, who generously gives us everything for our enjoyment. 
The LORD said to Aaron, 
I spoke foolishly, LORD. What can I answer? : I will not try to say anything else. 
Give the LORD your God what you promised him; : bring gifts to him, all you nearby nations. : God makes everyone fear him; 
If you confess that Jesus is Lord and believe that God raised him from death, you will be saved. 
Five of them were foolish, and the other five were wise.  
You sent your servants to boast to me that with all your chariots you had conquered the highest mountains of Lebanon. You boasted that there you cut down the tallest cedars and the finest cypress trees, and that you reached the deepest parts of the forests. 
Then they sent to him some of their disciples and some members of Herod's party. “Teacher,” they said, “we know that you tell the truth. You teach the truth about God's will for people, without worrying about what others think, because you pay no attention to anyone's status. 
that I will not keep anything of yours, not even a thread or a sandal strap. Then you can never say, ‘I am the one who made Abram rich.’ 
There they preached the message in Perga and then went to Attalia, 
All the pegs for the Tent and for the surrounding enclosure were made of bronze. 
Your speech should always be pleasant and interesting, and you should know how to give the right answer to everyone. 
The crash of your thunder rolled out, : and flashes of lightning lit up the world; : the earth trembled and shook. 
God said, “Mortal man, get a brick, put it in front of you, and scratch lines on it to represent the city of Jerusalem. 
Didn't a tree once make bitter water fit to drink, so that the Lord's power might be known? 
You have no respect for the holy places, and you don't keep the Sabbath. 
I brought your ancestors out of Egypt, and the Egyptians pursued them with chariots and cavalry. But when your ancestors got to the Red Sea 
It says that Abraham had two sons, one by a slave woman, the other by a free woman. 
We all know, LORD, that the emperors of Assyria have destroyed many nations, made their lands desolate, 
In my life in union with the Lord it is a great joy to me that after so long a time you once more had the chance of showing that you care for me. I don't mean that you had stopped caring for me — you just had no chance to show it. 
The LORD will punish Israel, and she will shake like a reed shaking in a stream. He will uproot the people of Israel from this good land which he gave to their ancestors, and he will scatter them beyond the River Euphrates, because they have aroused his anger by making idols of the goddess Asherah. 
Then the king sent Jehudi to get the scroll. He took it from the room of Elishama and read it to the king and all the officials who were standing round him. 
The LORD says to his people, “Do what is just and right, for soon I will save you. 
their revealing garments, their linen handkerchiefs, and the scarves and long veils they wear on their heads. 
Hegai liked Esther, and she won his favour. He lost no time in beginning her beauty treatment of massage and special diet. He gave her the best place in the harem and assigned seven young women specially chosen from the royal palace to serve her. 
But after I am raised to life, I will go to Galilee ahead of you.” 
As the LORD had commanded, Moses put his hands on Joshua's head and proclaimed him as his successor.
Always be fair and just, so that you will occupy the land that the LORD your God is giving you and will continue to live there. 
The owner may not arrange the animals so that the poor animals are chosen, and he may not make any substitutions. If he does substitute one animal for another, then both animals will belong to the LORD and may not be bought back. 
So if your right eye causes you to sin, take it out and throw it away! It is much better for you to lose a part of your body than to have your whole body thrown into hell.  
How? Did I take advantage of you through any of the messengers I sent? 
They all gathered in the Temple, and there they made a covenant with Joash, the king's son. Jehoiada said to them, “Here is the son of the late king! He is now to be king, as the LORD promised that King David's descendants would be. 
He will also keep you firm to the end, so that you will be faultless on the Day of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
You plant them, and they take root; : they grow and bear fruit. : They always speak well of you, : yet they do not really care about you. 
You and your children must obey these rules for ever. 
Can anyone be righteous or pure in God's sight? 
The LORD said to Joshua, “Do not be afraid of them. By this time tomorrow I will have killed all of them for Israel. You are to cripple their horses and burn their chariots.” 
With the remaining thirty kilogrammes of silver Bezalel made the rods, the hooks for the posts, and the covering for their tops. 
Moses saw that Aaron had let the people get out of control and make fools of themselves in front of their enemies. 
My child, you can learn if you want to. You can be clever if you are determined to be. 
The people of Israel have not repented; even though the LORD Almighty has punished them, they have not returned to him. 
then they are to take her out to the entrance of her father's house, where the men of her city are to stone her to death. She has done a shameful thing among our people by having intercourse before she was married, while she was still living in her father's house. In this way you will get rid of this evil. 
Then they said to me, “May the LORD be a true and faithful witness against us if we do not obey all the commands that the LORD our God gives you for us. 
Our people must learn to spend their time doing good, in order to provide for real needs; they should not live useless lives. 
They shall spread a blue cloth over the table for the bread offered to the LORD and put on it the dishes, the incense bowls, the offering bowls, and the jars for the wine offering. There shall always be bread on the table. 
You have rescued me from all my troubles, : and I have seen my enemies defeated.
The LORD said, “Throw it on the ground.” When Moses threw it down, it turned into a snake, and he ran away from it. 
the time for killing and the time for healing, : the time for tearing down and the time for building. 
“Where are you going, Lord?” Simon Peter asked him. :   “You cannot follow me now where I am going,” answered Jesus; “but later you will follow me.” 
“Pay your workers each day; never keep back their wages overnight. Honour God in this way, and he will reward you. Behave properly at all times. 
None of their descendants will survive; : the king will kill them all. 
Food grows out of the earth, : But underneath the same earth : All is torn up and crushed. 
The disciples went to him and woke him up. “Save us, Lord!” they said. “We are about to die!” 
Because they did not listen when I spoke, I did not answer when they prayed. 
They returned and told the others, but they would not believe it. 
We were afraid as soon as we heard about it; we have all lost our courage because of you. The LORD your God is God in heaven above and here on earth. 
Come on, let's make our father drunk, so that we can sleep with him and have children by him.” 
Do not forget to do good and to help one another, because these are the sacrifices that please God. 
The only land he did not buy was the land that belonged to the priests. They did not have to sell their lands, because the king gave them an allowance to live on. 
The LORD, the Most High, is to be feared; : he is a great king, ruling over all the world. 
“But I, the LORD, declare that this will never happen. 
Now go and give this message to his disciples, including Peter: ‘He is going to Galilee ahead of you; there you will see him, just as he told you.’ ” 
Because of Wisdom I will gain immortality; I will live for ever in the memory of those who come after me. 
All of them worked hard, and they restored the Temple to its original condition, as solid as ever. 
The arrogance of the people of Israel cries out against them. In spite of everything that has happened, they have not returned to me, the LORD their God. 
You do not believe me when I tell you about the things of this world; how will you ever believe me, then, when I tell you about the things of heaven?  
But other believers, who were from Cyprus and Cyrene, went to Antioch and proclaimed the message to Gentiles also, telling them the Good News about the Lord Jesus. 
Ibhar, Elishua, Nepheg, Japhia, 
Large crowds followed him from Galilee and the Ten Towns, from Jerusalem, Judea, and the land on the other side of the Jordan.
The LORD sees what happens everywhere; he is watching us, whether we do good or evil. 
He will send the angels out to the four corners of the earth to gather God's chosen people from one end of the world to the other. 
Curse them and fill them with despair! 
This is the end of the account. I was so frightened that I turned pale, and I kept everything to myself.
He proclaimed in a loud voice, ‘Cut the tree down and chop off its branches; strip off its leaves and scatter its fruit. Drive the animals from under it and the birds out of its branches. 
These are the ones who plan trouble and do evil; : their hearts are always full of deceit.
He calls heaven and earth as witnesses : to see him judge his people. 
Don't let her become like something born dead with half its flesh eaten away.” 
You have made him old before his time : and covered him with disgrace. 
Keep all your magic spells and charms; : you have used them since you were young. : Perhaps they will be of some help to you; : perhaps you can frighten your enemies. 
Good people will receive blessings. The words of the wicked hide a violent nature. 
Jesus said to them, “Take care; be on your guard against the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees.” 
I will not let insects destroy your crops, and your grapevines will be loaded with grapes. 
But turn now and plead with Almighty God; 
Aaron shall sacrifice the goat chosen by lot for the LORD and offer it as a sin offering. 
God remembers those who suffer; : he does not forget their cry, : and he punishes those who wrong them. 
This, then, is the law about mildew on clothing, whether it is wool or linen, or on linen or wool cloth or on anything made of leather; this is how the decision is made as to whether it is ritually clean or unclean.
So Moses gave these commands to Eleazar, Joshua, and the other leaders of Israel
When Jehoram was in firm control of the kingdom, he had all his brothers killed, and also some Israelite officials. 
It makes my people lose courage and stumble. I am threatening their city with a sword that flashes like lightning and is ready to kill. 
Their father gave them large amounts of gold, silver, and other valuable possessions, and placed each one in charge of one of the fortified cities of Judah. But because Jehoram was the eldest, Jehoshaphat made him his successor. 
Everything made of silver, gold, bronze, or iron is set apart for the LORD. It is to be put in the LORD's treasury.” 
For he said, : ‘Go and say to this people: : You will listen and listen, but not understand; : you will look and look, but not see, 
As an offering to take away the sins of the royal family and of the people of Judah and to purify the Temple, they took seven bulls, seven sheep, seven lambs, and seven goats. The king told the priests, who were descendants of Aaron, to offer the animals as sacrifices on the altar. 
“This is what the LORD has said about the Assyrian emperor: ‘He will not enter this city or shoot a single arrow against it. No soldiers with shields will come near the city, and no siege mounds will be built round it. 
I am calling a man to come from the east; : he will swoop down like a hawk : and accomplish what I have planned. : I have spoken, and it will be done. 
It was about three o'clock one afternoon when he had a vision, in which he clearly saw an angel of God come in and say to him, “Cornelius!” 
So they went. Then at twelve o'clock and again at three o'clock he did the same thing.  
and if you will read what I have written, you can learn about my understanding of the secret of Christ.) 
So Jesus went over, took the bread, and gave it to them; he did the same with the fish. 
Malchijah son of Harim and Hasshub son of Pahath Moab built both the next section and the Tower of the Ovens. 
People of Benjamin, run for safety! Escape from Jerusalem! Sound the trumpet in Tekoa and build a signal fire in Beth Haccherem. Disaster and destruction are about to come from the north. 
because it is the only covering he has to keep him warm. What else can he sleep in? When he cries out to me for help, I will answer him because I am merciful. 
Better to eat vegetables with people you love than to eat the finest meat where there is hate. 
His bones are as strong as bronze, : and his legs are like iron bars. 
He sinned against the LORD, but not as much as the kings who had ruled Israel before him. 
The LORD your God is with you; : his power gives you victory. : The LORD will take delight in you, : and in his love he will give you new life. : He will sing and be joyful over you, 
“You are right,” Moses answered. “You will never see me again.”
Nebuzaradan took them to the king of Babylonia, who was in the city of Riblah 
Defend my cause, and set me free; : save me, as you have promised. 
Ever since I was young, I have suffered and been near death; : I am worn out from the burden of your punishments. 
and of making all people see how God's secret plan is to be put into effect. God, who is the Creator of all things, kept his secret hidden through all the past ages, 
Your earliest ancestor sinned; : your leaders sinned against me, 
Is your life as short as ours? 
“And why worry about clothes? Look how the wild flowers grow: they do not work or make clothes for themselves.  
The LORD asked, ‘Who will deceive Ahab so that he will go and be killed at Ramoth?’ Some of the angels said one thing, and others said something else, 
Praise the Lord, : who carries our burdens day after day; : he is the God who saves us. 
When the whole nation had crossed the Jordan, the LORD said to Joshua, 
There is no safety for sinners,” says the LORD.
“Not everyone who calls me ‘Lord, Lord’ will enter the Kingdom of heaven, but only those who do what my Father in heaven wants them to do.  
So all the people took off their gold earrings and brought them to Aaron. 
Proclaim God's power; : his majesty is over Israel, : his might is in the skies. 
The Lord's gifts to religious people are gifts that endure. If he approves of you, you will always be successful. 
Then he died and was buried at Aijalon in the territory of Zebulun. 
On the fifteenth day of the first month of the twelfth year of our exile, the LORD spoke to me. 
They look like horses; : they run like war horses. 
“I am sorry that I made Saul king; he has turned away from me and disobeyed my commands.” Samuel was angry, and all night long he pleaded with the LORD. 
Samuel died, and all the Israelites came together and mourned for him. Then they buried him at his home in Ramah. : After this, David went to the wilderness of Paran. 
He will bless everyone who honours him, : the great and the small alike. 
So they fixed a date with Paul, and a large number of them came that day to the place where Paul was staying. From morning till night he explained to them his message about the Kingdom of God, and he tried to convince them about Jesus by quoting from the Law of Moses and the writings of the prophets. 
Now, LORD, let me die. I am better off dead than alive.” 
Who are you to question my wisdom : with your ignorant, empty words? 
All that he has is taken away; : he dies, still lacking wisdom.”
Amon, and Josiah. 
If a married woman makes a vow or promises to abstain from something, 
Following the LORD's command, Moses, Aaron, and the leaders of the community took a census of the three Levite clans, Kohath, Gershon, and Merari. They did this by sub-clans and families and registered all the men between the ages of thirty and fifty who were qualified to work in the Tent of the LORD's presence, as follows: :  :  : Kohath : 2,750 : Gershon : 2,630 : Merari : 3,200 : Total: : 8,580 
You will die, just as he did. Today it was his turn; tomorrow it will be yours. 
Don't get into an argument over something that is none of your business. Don't take part in decisions that are being made by sinners. 
Is there any man here who has just planted a vineyard, but has not yet had the chance to harvest its grapes? If so, he is to go home. Otherwise, if he is killed in battle, someone else will enjoy the wine. 
They are like children sitting in the market place. One group shouts to the other, ‘We played wedding music for you, but you wouldn't dance! We sang funeral songs, but you wouldn't cry!’  
The food will be a reserve supply for the country during the seven years of famine which are going to come on Egypt. In this way the people will not starve.” 
in the territory of Hamath. There the king had them beaten and put to death. : So the people of Judah were carried away from their land into exile. 
“Don't call me Naomi,” she answered; “call me Marah, because Almighty God has made my life bitter. 
The finest food means nothing if you are too ill to eat it; it might as well be offered to an idol.  
On the seventh day offer seven young bulls, two rams, and fourteen one-year-old male lambs, all without any defects. 
I asked, “What have they come to do?” : He answered, “They have come to terrify and overthrow the nations that completely crushed the land of Judah and scattered its people.”
He answered, “To Babylonia, where they will build a temple for it. When the temple is finished, the basket will be placed there to be worshipped.”
Fill your Temple on Mount Zion with your glory and with hymns of praise. 
Next was Rephidim, where there was no water for them to drink. 
who rode off. On the way, a lion met him and killed him. His body lay on the road, and the donkey and the lion stood beside it. 
From now on, then, you must live the rest of your earthly lives controlled by God's will and not by human desires. 
There they put me to the test and tried me, : although they had seen what I did for them. 
nor to worship idols, as some of them did. As the scripture says, “The people sat down to a feast which turned into an orgy of drinking and sex.” 
This is another thing you do. You drown the LORD's altar with tears, weeping and wailing because he no longer accepts the offerings you bring him. 
You have closed their minds to reason; : don't let them triumph over me now. 
Before a judge, be ashamed of criminal behaviour. : Before a public assembly, be ashamed of breaking the law. : Before a friend or partner, be ashamed of dishonesty. 
This is the law in cases where a man is jealous and becomes suspicious that his wife has committed adultery. 
He takes away the wisdom of rulers : and makes leaders act like fools. 
May my enemies be covered with disgrace; : may they wear their shame like a robe. 
When the disaster comes and the people are scattered, the Egyptians will gather them up — gather them for burial there at Memphis! Their treasures of silver and the places where their homes once stood will be overgrown with weeds and thorn bushes. 
Then Joseph took them from Jacob's lap and bowed down before him with his face to the ground. 
He punishes sinners where all can see it, 
Why do you keep tormenting me with words? 
God revealed his secret plan and made it known to me. (I have written briefly about this, 
If someone thinks he or she is somebody when really they are nobody, they are only deceiving themselves. 
ask the creatures of earth and sea for their wisdom. 
The LORD has stretched out his hand over the sea and overthrown kingdoms. He has ordered the Phoenician centres of commerce to be destroyed. 
“I, the LORD, will give victory to the armies of Judah first, so that the honour which the descendants of David and the people of Jerusalem will receive will be no greater than that of the rest of Judah. 
Then Barak replied, “I will go if you go with me, but if you don't go with me, I won't go either.” 
The LORD said to Moses, 
“Set aside for the LORD your God all the firstborn males of your cattle and sheep; don't use any of these cattle for work and don't shear any of these sheep. 
When God decided where the rain would fall, : And the path that the thunderclouds travel; 
By doing this, you also convinced our enemies that you are the one who rescues people from every evil. 
The people of Israel are the LORD's slaves, and he brought them out of Egypt; they must not be sold into slavery. 
Two are better off than one, because together they can work more effectively. 
Jesus replied, “The most important one is this: ‘Listen, Israel! The Lord our God is the only Lord.  
He was circumcised later, and his circumcision was a sign to show that because of his faith God had accepted him as righteous before he had been circumcised. And so Abraham is the spiritual father of all who believe in God and are accepted as righteous by him, even though they are not circumcised. 
The tribe of Zebulun did not drive out the people living in the cities of Kitron and Nahalal, and so the Canaanites continued to live there with them and were forced to work for them. 
“I am the LORD your God who brought you out of Egypt, where you were slaves. 
Don't tell our enemies in Gath about our defeat; don't let them see you weeping. People of Beth Leaphrah, show your despair by rolling in the dust! 
Pilate said to them, “Then you yourselves take him and try him according to your own law.” : They replied, “We are not allowed to put anyone to death.” 
So then, encourage one another with these words.
He gave the officers the spears and shields that had belonged to King David and had been kept in the Temple, 
The second assignment made was for the families of the tribe of Simeon. Its territory extended into the land assigned to the tribe of Judah. 
We have many parts in the one body, and all these parts have different functions. 
He said, “I promise you that I will bless you and give you many descendants.” 
The LORD said to Moses, “Now I am going to make food rain down from the sky for all of you. The people must go out every day and gather enough for that day. In this way I can test them to find out if they will follow my instructions. 
and so they rushed over to what they had captured from the enemy, took sheep and cattle, slaughtered them on the spot, and ate the meat with the blood still in it. 
Always watch where you are going.  
He may be given as many as forty lashes, but no more; more than that would humiliate him publicly. 
“Why should he die?” Jonathan replied. “What has he done?” 
When they were all full, he said to his disciples, “Gather the pieces left over; let us not waste any.”  
You say, ‘I am rich and well off; I have all I need.’ But you do not know how miserable and pitiful you are! You are poor, naked, and blind.  
We call them happy because they endured. You have heard of Job's patience, and you know how the Lord provided for him in the end. For the Lord is full of mercy and compassion. 
Give thanks to the LORD, because he is good; : his love is eternal. 
These are the tribes descended from Esau. Esau's first son Eliphaz was the ancestor of the following tribes: Teman, Omar, Zepho, Kenaz, 
Yes, Hezekiah did what was pleasing to the Lord and firmly followed the example of his ancestor David. This was what was commanded by the great prophet Isaiah, whose visions were trusted. 
I put down roots among an honoured people : whom the Lord had chosen as his own. 
The end of all things is near. You must be self-controlled and alert, to be able to pray. 
The altars will be torn down and the incense altars broken. All the people there will be killed in front of their idols. 
So all that day, all night, and all the next day, the people worked catching quails; no one gathered less than a thousand kilogrammes. They spread them out to dry all round the camp. 
If you stick something in your eye, tears will flow; and if you hurt a person deeply, you will discover his true feelings. 
Then I saw the Lamb break open the first of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures say in a voice that sounded like thunder, “Come!” 
I have received the report of that rage and that pride of yours, and now I will put a hook through your nose and a bit in your mouth, and take you back by the same road you came.” 
I am the God of your ancestors, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.” So Moses covered his face, because he was afraid to look at God. 
“What do you want?” Jesus asked her. : She answered, “Promise me that these two sons of mine will sit at your right and your left when you are King.” 
From the time I rescued the people of Israel from Egypt until now, I have never lived in a temple; I have travelled round living in a tent. 
The LORD said to Moses, “Put Aaron's stick back in front of the Covenant Box. It is to be kept as a warning to the rebel Israelites that they will die unless their complaining stops.” 
The LORD is good; : he protects his people in times of trouble; : he takes care of those who turn to him. 
Almighty God was with me then, : and I was surrounded by all my children. 
When someone dedicates his house to the LORD, the priest shall fix the price according to its good or bad points, and the price will be final. 
And the LORD God made clothes out of animal skins for Adam and his wife, and he clothed them. 
The cattle are bellowing in distress : because there is no pasture for them; : the flocks of sheep also suffer. 
‘Bring me an animal and cook it for me. After I have eaten it, I will give you my blessing in the presence of the LORD before I die.’ 
An Israelite cannot be a permanent slave, because the people of Israel are the LORD's slaves. He brought them out of Egypt; he is the LORD their God.
Joshua did as Moses commanded him and went out to fight the Amalekites, while Moses, Aaron, and Hur went up to the top of the hill. 
No! Only the men may go and worship the LORD if that is what you want.” With that, Moses and Aaron were driven out of the king's presence. 
We must pay for the water we drink; : we must buy the wood we need for fuel. 
But Moses answered, “You know that I am such a poor speaker; why should the king listen to me?”
How can I curse what God has not cursed, : Or speak of doom when the LORD has not? 
She has been given clean shining linen to wear.” (The linen is the good deeds of God's people.) 
People of Dedan, turn and run! Hide! I am going to destroy Esau's descendants, because the time has come for me to punish them. 
Like tangled thorns and dry straw, : you drunkards will be burnt up! 
When we come to the end of that story, we have not even begun; we are simply at a loss for words. 
Jerusalem rejoices because of what the LORD has done. : She is like a bride dressed for her wedding. : God has clothed her with salvation and victory. 
whenever they went into the Tent or to the altar, just as the LORD had commanded. 
One night Paul had a vision in which the Lord said to him, “Do not be afraid, but keep on speaking and do not give up,  
He sent messengers into the city to King Ahab of Israel to say, “King Benhadad demands that 
But he pulled his arm back, and his brother was born first. Then the midwife said, “So this is how you break your way out!” So he was named Perez.  
Look straight ahead with honest confidence; don't hang your head in shame. 
to make myself a yoke out of leather straps and wooden crossbars and to put it on my neck. 
This law applies to all of you, to Israelites and to foreigners living among you, because I am the LORD your God.” 
The next morning Joshua and all the people of Israel got up early, left the camp at Acacia, and went to the Jordan, where they camped while waiting to cross it. 
If they lean on a web, will it hold them up? : If they grab for a thread, will it help them stand?” 
When one of them saw that he was healed, he came back, praising God in a loud voice. 
and he instructed the messenger, “After you have told the king all about the battle, 
So one of the people there said to him, “Look, your mother and brothers are standing outside, and they want to speak with you.” 
I will increase the yield of your fruit trees and your fields, so that there will be no more famines to disgrace you among the nations. 
He will send disease after disease on you until there is not one of you left in the land that you are about to occupy. 
If you do no wrong, no wrong will ever come to you. 
“If anyone injures another person, whatever he has done shall be done to him. 
For John the Baptist came to you showing you the right path to take, and you would not believe him; but the tax collectors and the prostitutes believed him. Even when you saw this, you did not later change your minds and believe him. 
They may stay in the city until they have received a public trial and until the death of the man who is then the High Priest. Then they may go back home to their own town, from which they had run away.” 
The emperor told him to take them and return them to the Temple in Jerusalem, and to rebuild the Temple where it had stood before. 
The clouds of dust raised by their horses will cover you. The noise of their horses pulling wagons and chariots will shake your walls as they pass through the gates of the ruined city. 
“Listen to what I, the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, say about the treasures that are left in the Temple and in the royal palace in Jerusalem
They have roared at him like lions; : they have made his land a desert, : and his towns lie in ruins, completely abandoned. 
Close your eyes to my sins : and wipe out all my evil. 
There were more than forty who planned this together. 
I gain wisdom from your laws, : and so I hate all bad conduct. 
so he asked, “Why are you looking so sad? You aren't ill, so it must be that you're unhappy.” : I was startled 
He reckoned that to suffer scorn for the Messiah was worth far more than all the treasures of Egypt, for he kept his eyes on the future reward. 
These are the assignments of work for the Levites who served as temple guards. From the clan of Korah there was Meshelemiah son of Kore, of the family of Asaph. 
Poor people are helpless against a wicked ruler; he is as dangerous as a growling lion or a prowling bear. 
The Sovereign LORD said, “Those priests belonging to the tribe of Levi who are descended from Zadok, however, continued to serve me faithfully in the Temple when the rest of the people of Israel turned away from me. So now they are the ones who are to serve me and come into my presence to offer me the fat and the blood of the sacrifices. 
Ruth answered, “You are very kind to me, sir. You have made me feel better by speaking gently to me, even though I am not the equal of one of your servants.” 
For the others put in what they had to spare of their riches; but she, poor as she is, put in all she had — she gave all she had to live on.”
Then Boaz said to Ruth, “Let me give you some advice. Don't pick up corn anywhere except in this field. Work with the women here; 
Look! Your enemies are in revolt, : and those who hate you are rebelling. 
He turned pale and was so frightened that his knees began to shake. 
For burning offerings, he made an altar out of acacia wood. It was square, 2.2 metres long and 2.2 metres wide, and it was 1.3 metres high. 
At the command of the LORD, Aaron the priest climbed Mount Hor. At the age of 123 he died there on the first day of the fifth month of the fortieth year after the Israelites had left Egypt. 
We are often troubled, but not crushed; sometimes in doubt, but never in despair; 
the king of Syria will invade Egypt, but he will be forced to retreat. 
The people asked him to stay longer, but he would not consent. 
So then, my dear brothers and sisters, stand firm and steady. Keep busy always in your work for the Lord, since you know that nothing you do in the Lord's service is ever useless.
The king sits in judgement and knows evil when he sees it. 
Wisdom protected the father of the world, the first man that was ever formed, when he alone had been created. She saved him from his own sinful act 
especially those who follow their filthy bodily lusts and despise God's authority. : These false teachers are bold and arrogant, and show no respect for the glorious beings above; instead, they insult them. 
Does anyone dare to say to his parents, : “Why did you make me like this?” 
to go back to Hezekiah, ruler of the LORD's people, and say to him, “I, the LORD, the God of your ancestor David, have heard your prayer and seen your tears. I will heal you, and in three days you will go to the Temple. 
“King Agrippa! I consider myself fortunate that today I am to defend myself before you from all the things these Jews accuse me of, 
They are like trees that grow beside a stream, : that bear fruit at the right time, : and whose leaves do not dry up. : They succeed in everything they do. 
If the person answered, “Let us do what is right and burn the fat first; then take what you want,” the priest's servant would say, “No! Give it to me now! If you don't, I will have to take it by force!” 
Shem, the elder brother of Japheth, was the ancestor of all the Hebrews. 
and took a vow in the name of God, who lives for ever and ever, who created heaven, earth, and the sea, and everything in them. The angel said, “There will be no more delay! 
Be like newborn babies, always thirsty for the pure spiritual milk, so that by drinking it you may grow up and be saved. 
You will also have a limited amount of water to drink, two cups a day. 
The next day the elder daughter said to her sister, “I slept with him last night; now let's make him drunk again tonight, and you sleep with him. Then each of us will have a child by our father.” 
But now suppose you take away everything he has — he will curse you to your face!” 
Then those who are now last will be first, and those who are now first will be last.” 
The LORD says, “The people of Israel are like a half-baked loaf of bread. They rely on the nations around them 
It is God who clothes the wild grass — grass that is here today and gone tomorrow, burnt up in the oven. Won't he be all the more sure to clothe you? How little faith you have! 
I am going soon and will never come back — : going to a land that is dark and gloomy, 
If the people worshipping God had really been purified from their sins, they would not feel guilty of sin any more, and all sacrifices would stop. 
God said to them, “Defile the Temple. Fill its courtyards with corpses. Get to work!” So they began to kill the people in the city. 
Don't rely on dishonest wealth; it will do you no good on that day of disaster. 
The men of Gad and Reuben answered, “Sir, we will do as the LORD has commanded. 
But all who ask the LORD for help will be saved. : As the LORD has said, : ‘Some in Jerusalem will escape; : those whom I choose will survive.’ ”
Jesus preached his message to the people, using many other parables like these; he told them as much as they could understand. 
Paul stayed on with the believers in Corinth for many days, then left them and sailed off with Priscilla and Aquila for Syria. Before sailing from Cenchreae he had his head shaved because of a vow he had taken.  
So Paul stayed there for a year and a half, teaching the people the word of God. 
“But even now,” says the LORD, : “repent sincerely and return to me : with fasting and weeping and mourning. 
So Gideon took ten of his servants and did what the LORD had told him. He was too afraid of his family and the people of the town to do it by day, so he did it at night. 
He will take care of his flock like a shepherd; : he will gather the lambs together : and carry them in his arms; : he will gently lead their mothers. 
Then the angel cried out to me, “The horses that went north to Babylonia have calmed down the LORD's anger.” 
Then God made Abimelech and the men of Shechem hostile to each other, and they rebelled against him. 
The LORD spoke to me. 
He gave a command to the Red Sea, : and it dried up; : he led his people across on dry land. 
threw him out of the city, and stoned him. The witnesses left their cloaks in the care of a young man named Saul. 
These clans numbered 53,400 men. 
The LORD says, “The time is coming when people will no longer swear by me as the living God who brought the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt. 
This very day the LORD will put you in my power; I will defeat you and cut off your head. And I will give the bodies of the Philistine soldiers to the birds and animals to eat. Then the whole world will know that Israel has a God, 
This man Micah had his own place of worship. He made some idols and an ephod, and appointed one of his sons as his priest. 
The LORD says, : “Nations, listen to me, : and proclaim my words on the far-off shores. : I scattered my people, but I will gather them : and guard them as a shepherd guards his flock. 
“Now at last the Lord has helped me,” she said. “He has taken away my public disgrace!” 
Then the angel that I saw standing on the sea and on the land raised his right-hand to heaven 
Even your relatives, members of your own family, have betrayed you; : they join in the attacks against you. : Do not trust them, even though they speak friendly words.” 
The Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you everything and make you remember all that I have told you. 
“You were a guest in the home of uncircumcised Gentiles, and you even ate with them!” 
She added, “He told me I must not come back to you empty-handed, so he gave me all this barley.” 
You may eat these animals: cattle, sheep, goats, 
After all this had been done, some of the leaders of the people of Israel came and told me that the people, the priests, and the Levites had not kept themselves separate from the people in the neighbouring countries of Ammon, Moab, and Egypt or from the Canaanites, Hittites, Perizzites, Jebusites, and Amorites. They were doing the same disgusting things that those people did. 
He made an eternal covenant with him, giving him the privilege of serving as priest to the Lord's people. He honoured him by clothing him with magnificent robes and fine ornaments, 
The Lord has overthrown kings and put humbler people in their place. 
Amariah, Ahitub, 
From Rephidim to Mount Hor they set up camp at the following places: the Sinai Desert, Kibroth Hattaavah (or “Graves of Craving”), Hazeroth, Rithmah, Rimmon Perez, Libnah, Rissah, Kehelathah, Mount Shepher, Haradah, Makheloth, Tahath, Terah, Mithkah, Hashmonah, Moseroth, Bene Jaakan, Hor Haggidgad, Jotbathah, Abronah, Eziongeber, the wilderness of Zin (that is, Kadesh), and Mount Hor, at the edge of the land of Edom. 
His father said, “Go and see if your brothers are safe and if the flock is all right; then come back and tell me.” So his father sent him on his way from the Valley of Hebron. : Joseph arrived at Shechem 
He killed the firstborn sons : of all the families of Egypt. 
Perhaps you think that all along we have been trying to defend ourselves before you. No! We speak as Christ would wish us to speak in the presence of God, and everything we do, dear friends, is done to help you. 
Abner was buried at Hebron, and the king wept aloud at the grave, and so did all the people. 
O LORD, listen to them in heaven and forgive the sins of your servants, the people of Israel, and teach them to do what is right. Then, O LORD, send rain on this land of yours, which you gave to your people as a permanent possession. 
Abraham and Sarah were very old, and Sarah had stopped having her monthly periods. 
When the mountains saw you, they trembled; : water poured down from the skies. : The waters under the earth roared, : and their waves rose high. 
But the king answered, “No, I will pay you for it. I will not offer to the LORD my God sacrifices that have cost me nothing.” And he bought the threshing place and the oxen for fifty pieces of silver. 
He sent his brothers off and as they left, he said to them, “Don't quarrel on the way.” 
I sent them to Iddo, head of the community at Casiphia, to ask him and his associates, the temple workmen, to send us people to serve God in the Temple. 
From then on, whenever the evil spirit sent by God came on Saul, David would get his harp and play it. The evil spirit would leave, and Saul would feel better and be all right again.
Make sure that the man you choose to be king is the one whom the LORD has chosen. He must be one of your own people; do not make a foreigner your king. 
At that time Herod, the ruler of Galilee, heard about Jesus. 
From the time I rescued the people of Israel from Egypt until now, I have never lived in a temple; I have always lived in tents and moved from place to place. 
Everyone who falls on that stone will be cut to pieces; and if that stone falls on someone, it will crush him to dust.” 
women, and children, and the foreigners who live among you and cut wood and carry water for you. 
Now hear my prayer, O God of my ancestor Simeon, the God in whom Israel trusts, ruler of heaven and earth, creator of the rivers and the seas, king of all creation. Hear my prayer and 
“except the tree in the middle of it. God told us not to eat the fruit of that tree or even touch it; if we do, we will die.” 
to keep him from the grave, : to let him live for ever. 
Jerusalem's old men sit on the ground in silence, : With dust on their heads and sackcloth on their bodies. : Young women bow their heads to the ground. 
I am about to fall : and am in constant pain. 
Surely you know that many runners take part in a race, but only one of them wins the prize. Run, then, in such a way as to win the prize. 
Suddenly the Sabeans attacked and stole them all. They killed every one of your servants except me. I am the only one who escaped to tell you.” 
So I am not really the one who does this thing; rather it is the sin that lives in me. 
Moses had married a Cushite woman, and Miriam and Aaron criticized him for it. 
We continued our voyage, sailing from Tyre to Ptolemais, where we greeted the believers and stayed with them for a day. 
I did not see any other apostle except James, the Lord's brother. 
Then the king said to the prophet Nathan, “Here I am living in a house built of cedar, but God's Covenant Box is kept in a tent!” 
“This man,” they said, “is trying to persuade people to worship God in a way that is against the law!” 
I left you in Crete, so that you could put in order the things that still needed doing and appoint church elders in every town. Remember my instructions
The Ammonites realized that they had made David their enemy, so they hired 20,000 Syrian soldiers from Bethrehob and Zobah, 12,000 men from Tob, and the king of Maacah with a thousand men. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “denounce Jerusalem. Denounce the places where people worship. Warn the land of Israel 
So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath.”
followed the customs of the people whom the LORD had driven out as his people advanced, and adopted customs introduced by the kings of Israel.  
“The days are coming,” says the LORD, : “when corn will grow faster than it can be harvested, : and grapes will grow faster than the wine can be made. : The mountains will drip with sweet wine, : and the hills will flow with it. 
She caught him by his robe and said, “Come to bed with me.” But he escaped and ran outside, leaving his robe in her hand. 
When the wedding feast was over, Tobit called his son Tobias and said to him, “My son, be sure to pay your travelling companion, and don't forget to give him a bonus.” 
These are the solemn words of Agur son of Jakeh: : “God is not with me, God is not with me, : and I am helpless. 
The LORD your God hates people who do these disgusting things, and that is why he is driving those nations out of the land as you advance. 
And I will do whatever you ask for in my name, so that the Father's glory will be shown through the Son.  
Then the fifth angel blew his trumpet. I saw a star which had fallen down to the earth, and it was given the key to the abyss.  
Before Jesus began his work, John preached to all the people of Israel that they should turn from their sins and be baptized. 
We are honoured and disgraced; we are insulted and praised. We are treated as liars, yet we speak the truth; 
They have built altars to Baal in the Valley of Hinnom, to sacrifice their sons and daughters to the god Molech. I did not command them to do this, and it did not even enter my mind that they would do such a thing and make the people of Judah sin.” 
I thought that after she had done all this, she would surely return to me. But she did not return, and her unfaithful sister Judah saw it all. 
She has been the ruin of many men and caused the death of too many to count. 
Scatter them like dust, O God, : like straw blown away by the wind. 
These seven are the descendants of Jacob by Bilhah, the slave woman whom Laban gave to his daughter Rachel. 
Elimelech died, and Naomi was left alone with her two sons, 
This is the end of the prayers of David son of Jesse.
Your Majesty has issued an order that as soon as the music starts, everyone is to bow down and worship the gold statue, 
My people Israel will take revenge on Edom for me, and they will make Edom feel my furious anger. Edom will know what it means to be the object of my revenge.” The Sovereign LORD has spoken. 
And I prayed, ‘Sovereign LORD, don't destroy your own people, the people you rescued and brought out of Egypt by your great strength and power. 
Ever since I brought them out of Egypt, they have turned away from me and worshipped other gods; and now they are doing to you what they have always done to me. 
I was furious and threw out all Tobiah's belongings. 
If the LORD had not helped me, : I would have gone quickly to the land of silence. 
About the tribe of Joseph he said: : “May the LORD bless their land with rain : And with water from under the earth. 
The priest who sacrifices the animal shall eat it in a holy place, the courtyard of the Tent of the LORD's presence. 
By the rivers of Babylon we sat down; : there we wept when we remembered Zion. 
But if a reddish-white sore appears on the bald spot, it is a dreaded skin disease. 
and for all the objects which the skilled workers are to make. Now who else is willing to give a generous offering to the LORD?” 
I will cover the mountains with corpses, and the bodies of those who are killed in battle will cover the hills and valleys. 
Who, then, is the liar? It is those who say that Jesus is not the Messiah. Such people are the Enemies of Christ — they reject both the Father and the Son. 
Shaphan delivered the king's order to Hilkiah, and Hilkiah told him that he had found the book of the Law in the Temple. Hilkiah gave him the book, and Shaphan read it. 
When such a person does something good, it is only by accident; his selfishness will sooner or later be evident. 
I lie awake; : I am like a lonely bird on a housetop. 
Before some men who had been sent by James arrived there, Peter had been eating with the Gentile brothers and sisters. But after these men arrived, he drew back and would not eat with the Gentiles, because he was afraid of those who were in favour of circumcising them. 
“And as for you, people of Judah, I have set a time to punish you also for what you are doing.
I will watch over them and bring them back to this land. I will build them up and not tear them down; I will plant them and not pull them up. 
But the invited guests paid no attention and went about their business: one went to his farm, another to his shop,  
When the Pharisee saw this, he said to himself, “If this man really were a prophet, he would know who this woman is who is touching him; he would know what kind of sinful life she lives!” 
I punished you, but it did no good; you would not let me correct you. Like a raging lion, you have murdered your prophets. 
I have also learnt why people work so hard to succeed: it is because they envy their neighbours. But it is useless. It is like chasing the wind. 
If she is a wall, : we will build her a silver tower. : But if she is a gate, : we will protect her with panels of cedar. 
I did what the LORD told me to do. That day I packed a bundle as a refugee would, and that evening as it was getting dark I dug a hole in the wall with my hands and went out. While everyone watched, I put the pack on my shoulder and left. 
But it was very good of you to help me in my troubles. 
So Paul took the men and the next day performed the ceremony of purification with them. Then he went into the Temple and gave notice of how many days it would be until the end of the period of purification, when a sacrifice would be offered for each one of them. 
Our brothers and sisters, you yourselves know that our visit to you was not a failure. 
The king covered his face and cried loudly, “O my son! My son Absalom! Absalom, my son!” 
“Everyone who lives along the coast is shocked at your fate. Even their kings are terrified, and fear is written on their faces. 
And my being in prison has given most of the brothers and sisters more confidence in the Lord, so that they grow bolder all the time to preach the message fearlessly. 
Everyone who worships idols is put to shame; : all the gods bow down before the LORD. 
He said to them, “I am sure that you will quote this proverb to me, ‘Doctor, heal yourself.’ You will also tell me to do here in my home town the same things you heard were done in Capernaum.  
“Or I might send wild animals to kill the people, making the land so dangerous that no one could travel through it, 
that has divided hoofs and that also chews the cud, 
To defend his fortresses, he will use people who worship a foreign god. He will give great honour to those who accept him as ruler, put them into high offices, and give them land as a reward. 
All this time you have never once deserted your fellow-Israelites. You have been careful to obey the commands of the LORD your God. 
Greet all the believers with a holy kiss. 
So Isaac lived at Gerar. 
I wrote in a book an account of all the destruction that would come on Babylonia, as well as all these other things about Babylonia. 
The people of Dedan exchanged saddlecloths for your goods. 
Aaron married Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab and sister of Nahshon; she bore him Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
I write to Titus, my true son in the faith that we have in common. : May God the Father and Christ Jesus our Saviour give you grace and peace. 
How terrible for them! They have followed the way that Cain took. For the sake of money they have given themselves over to the error that Balaam committed. They have rebelled as Korah rebelled, and like him they are destroyed. 
You are my God, so be merciful to me; : I pray to you all day long. 
When Abimelech came to attack the tower, he went up to the door to set the tower on fire. 
When Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the servant in charge of his house, “Take these men to my house. They are going to eat with me at noon, so kill an animal and prepare it.” 
His father, who was no longer living, was from Tyre, and had also been a skilled bronze craftsman; his mother was from the tribe of Naphtali. Huram was an intelligent and experienced craftsman. He accepted King Solomon's invitation to be in charge of all the bronze work. 
he said, : “A curse on Canaan! : He will be a slave to his brothers. 
Your clothes are stained with the blood of the poor and innocent, not with the blood of burglars. : “But in spite of all this, 
On that day the bodies of those whom the LORD has killed will lie scattered from one end of the earth to the other. No one will mourn for them, and they will not be taken away and buried. They will lie on the ground like piles of manure. 
He made them to be like himself, : and gave them his own strength. 
This is what will happen in every nation all over the world. It will be like the end of harvest, when the olives have been beaten off every tree and the last grapes picked from the vines. 
You will live secure and full of hope; : God will protect you and give you rest. 
So every man took his firepan, put live coals and incense on it, and stood at the entrance of the Tent with Moses and Aaron. 
The disciples asked him, “Where will we find enough food in this desert to feed this crowd?” 
Your real life is Christ and when he appears, then you too will appear with him and share his glory! 
The LORD says, “The people of Israel are like sheep, chased and scattered by lions. First, they were attacked by the emperor of Assyria, and then King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia gnawed their bones. 
“No,” Joab said, “today you will not take any good news. Some other day you may do so, but not today, for the king's son is dead.” 
As the LORD commanded Joshua, part of the territory of Judah was given to Caleb son of Jephunneh, from the tribe of Judah. He received Hebron, the city belonging to Arba, father of Anak. 
Then the LORD stretched out his hand, touched my lips, and said to me, “Listen, I am giving you the words you must speak. 
But the scripture says that the whole world is under the power of sin; and so the gift which is promised on the basis of faith in Jesus Christ is given to those who believe. 
Instead, one Christian goes to court against another and lets unbelievers judge the case! 
For false Messiahs and false prophets will appear; they will perform great miracles and wonders in order to deceive even God's chosen people, if possible.  
and drank the same spiritual drink. They drank from the spiritual rock that went with them; and that rock was Christ himself. 
As the boy was coming, the demon knocked him to the ground and threw him into a fit. Jesus gave a command to the evil spirit, healed the boy, and gave him back to his father. 
They came to Bethsaida, where some people brought a blind man to Jesus and begged him to touch him. 
he met some relatives of the late King Ahaziah of Judah and asked them, “Who are you?” : “Ahaziah's relatives,” they answered. “We are going to Jezreel to pay our respects to the children of Queen Jezebel and to the rest of the royal family.” 
So he went and caught 300 foxes. Two by two, he tied their tails together and put torches in the knots. 
Mysteries greater than these are still unknown; : we know only a fraction of his works. 
King Benhadad of Syria gathered all his troops, and supported by 32 other rulers with their horses and chariots, he marched up, laid siege to Samaria, and launched attacks against it. 
Ahab answered, “There is one more, Micaiah son of Imlah. But I hate him, because he never prophesies anything good for me; it's always something bad.” : “You shouldn't say that!” Jehoshaphat replied. 
He came out, his hands and feet wrapped in grave clothes, and with a cloth round his face. “Untie him,” Jesus told them, “and let him go.” 
Among those whom the people of Israel killed was the fortune teller Balaam son of Beor. 
Those who win the victory will be clothed like this in white, and I will not remove their names from the book of the living. In the presence of my Father and of his angels I will declare openly that they belong to me. 
“Take the meat of the ram used for the ordination of Aaron and his sons and boil it in a holy place. 
Like his father Manasseh, he sinned against the LORD; 
Solomon employed in forced labour all the descendants of the people of Canaan whom the Israelites had not killed when they took possession of the land. These included Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites, whose descendants continue to be slaves down to the present time. 
You will be doing the right thing if you obey the law of the Kingdom, which is found in the scripture, “Love your neighbour as you love yourself.” 
The priests and the Levites performed ritual purification for themselves, the people, the gates, and the city wall. 
The clan of Eran traced its descent from Shuthelah. 
Is anything too hard for the LORD? As I said, nine months from now I will return, and Sarah will have a son.” 
No other nation has ever changed its gods, : even though they were not real. : But my people have exchanged me, : the God who has brought them honour, : for gods that can do nothing for them. 
We, the people, priests, and Levites, will draw lots each year to determine which clans are to provide wood to burn the sacrifices offered to the LORD our God, according to the requirements of the Law. 
Then David was afraid of God and said, “How can I take the Covenant Box with me now?” 
Then the LORD said to Moses, 
Jacob loved Joseph more than all his other sons, because he had been born to him when he was old. He made a long robe with full sleeves for him. 
Do people gain anything if they win the whole world but lose their life? Of course not!  
and the thin cows ate up the fat cows. Then the king woke up. 
As a deer longs for a stream of cool water, : so I long for you, O God. 
So the jailer told Paul, “The officials have sent an order for you and Silas to be released. You may leave, then, and go in peace.” 
(Actually, Jesus himself did not baptize anyone; only his disciples did.) 
Then Isaac brought Rebecca into the tent that his mother Sarah had lived in, and she became his wife. Isaac loved Rebecca, and so he was comforted for the loss of his mother.
Look around and see what is happening! : Your people are assembling — they are coming home! : As surely as I am the living God, : you will be proud of your people, : as proud as a bride is of her jewels. 
Of the twelve spies only Joshua and Caleb survived. 
Judah said to him, “The man sternly warned us that we would not be admitted to his presence unless we had our brother with us. 
Do not announce it in Gath : or in the streets of Ashkelon. : Do not make the women of Philistia glad; : do not let the daughters of pagans rejoice. 
Jesus said to them, “What are you talking about to each other, as you walk along?” : They stood still, with sad faces. 
Later he gathered together a group of worthless scoundrels, and they forced their will on Rehoboam son of Solomon, who was too young and inexperienced to resist them. 
The nations advance like rushing waves, but God reprimands them and they retreat, driven away like dust on a hillside, like straw in a whirlwind. 
The king of Babylonia cut Jerusalem up : and ate it. : He emptied the city like a jar; : like a monster he swallowed it. : He took what he wanted : and threw the rest away. 
the following regulations for the people of Israel to observe in the land that he was going to give them. 
So I took the cup from the LORD's hand, gave it to all the nations to whom the LORD had sent me, and made them drink from it. 
Ask, and I will give you all the nations; : the whole earth will be yours. 
Listen to me, my child. Take seriously what I am telling you, and you will live a long life. 
The LORD says, : “I will condemn those : who turn away from me : and put their trust in human beings, : in the strength of mortals. 
When I am silent, they will wait for me to speak, and when I speak, they will pay attention. Even when I speak at length, they will listen with concentration. 
Now, Your Majesty, the LORD says that you will find out who he is by what he is going to do. Look, I am going to strike the surface of the river with this stick, and the water will be turned into blood. 
You will always have poor people with you, and any time you want to, you can help them. But you will not always have me.  
Now this is what the Sovereign LORD says: “In my anger I will send a strong wind, pouring rain, and hailstones to destroy the wall. 
But we do see Jesus, who for a little while was made lower than the angels, so that through God's grace he should die for everyone. We see him now crowned with glory and honour because of the death he suffered. 
“Go out of the boat with your wife, your sons, and their wives. 
The LORD said, “They are my people; they will not deceive me.” And so he saved them 
David prayed to God that the child would get well. He refused to eat anything, and every night he went into his room and spent the night lying on the floor. 
Israel, the LORD who created you says, : “Do not be afraid — I will save you. : I have called you by name — you are mine. 
God put all things under Christ's feet and gave him to the church as supreme Lord over all things. 
As Jesus and his disciples were leaving Jericho, a large crowd was following. 
I said, “None of these prophets has ever known the LORD's secret thoughts. None of them has ever heard or understood his message, or ever listened or paid attention to what he said. 
Then the LORD said to me, “Even if Moses and Samuel were standing here pleading with me, I would not show these people any mercy. Make them go away; make them get out of my sight. 
This is what the LORD Almighty said about Moab: : “Pity the people of Nebo — : their town is destroyed! : Kiriathaim is captured, : its mighty fortress torn down, : and its people put to shame; 
So Delilah said to Samson, “Please tell me what makes you so strong. If someone wanted to tie you up and make you helpless, how could he do it?” 
The court secretaries: Elihoreph and Ahijah, sons of Shisha : In charge of the records: Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud 
Then seven ears of corn sprouted, thin and scorched by the desert wind, 
Never take revenge, my friends, but instead let God's anger do it. For the scripture says, “I will take revenge, I will pay back, says the Lord.” 
The most fortunate of women is Jael, : the wife of Heber the Kenite — : the most fortunate of women who live in tents. 
For God judges everyone by the same standard. 
The old rule, then, is set aside, because it was weak and useless. 
The LORD commanded Moses 
“So don't be all upset, always concerned about what you will eat and drink.  
But do not use their blood for food; instead, you must pour it out on the ground like water.
and a bull and a ram for a fellowship offering. They are to sacrifice them to the LORD with the grain offering mixed with oil. They must do this because the LORD will appear to them today.” 
They will lose whatever they inherit, and their own descendants will live in permanent disgrace. 
Some ten days later the LORD struck Nabal and he died. 
So Haman got the robes and the horse, and he put the robes on Mordecai. Mordecai got on the horse, and Haman led him through the city square, announcing to the people as they went: “See how the king rewards a man he wishes to honour!” 
the following regulations about houses affected by spreading mildew. (These were to apply after the people of Israel entered the land of Canaan, which the LORD was going to give them as their possession.) 
Its leaves were beautiful, and it was loaded down with fruit — enough for the whole world to eat. Wild animals rested in its shade, birds built nests in its branches, and every kind of living being ate its fruit. 
The LORD said, “I will go with you, and I will give you victory.” 
Someone may suddenly die at night. : God strikes people down and they perish; : he kills the mighty with no effort at all. 
John answered, “No one can have anything unless God gives it to him. 
The members of the Council were amazed to see how bold Peter and John were and to learn that they were ordinary men of no education. They realized then that they had been companions of Jesus. 
When the builders started to lay the foundation of the Temple, the priests in their robes took their places with trumpets in their hands, and the Levites of the clan of Asaph stood there with cymbals. They praised the LORD according to the instructions handed down from the time of King David. 
A wife who doesn't talk too much is a gift from the Lord. Such restraint is admirable beyond words. 
With great power the apostles gave witness to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and God poured rich blessings on them all. 
He will speak against the Supreme God and oppress God's people. He will try to change their religious laws and festivals, and God's people will be under his power for 3.5 years. 
So Jesus told them plainly, “Lazarus is dead,  
That day God gave the Israelites victory over Jabin, the Canaanite king. 
Your hand guided all that happened then, and all that happened before and after. You have planned it all — what is happening now, and what is yet to be. Your plans have always been carried out. 
The laws of the LORD are right, : and those who obey them are happy. : The commands of the LORD are just : and give understanding to the mind. 
I saw a scroll in the right-hand of the one who sits on the throne; it was covered with writing on both sides and was sealed with seven seals. 
I learnt things that were well known and things that had never been known before, 
But how can you stand these treacherous, evil men? Your eyes are too holy to look at evil, and you cannot stand the sight of people doing wrong. So why are you silent while they destroy people who are more righteous than they are? 
But the LORD was pleased with Noah. 
“Go to the members of the Rechabite clan and talk to them. Then bring them into one of the rooms in the Temple and offer them some wine.” 
Stupid people will start being wise : when wild donkeys are born tame. 
And now the wall had been rebuilt, the gates had all been put in place, and the temple guards, the members of the sacred choir, and the other Levites had been assigned their work. 
“Saul and Jonathan, so wonderful and dear; : together in life, together in death; : swifter than eagles, stronger than lions. 
Then I thought about all that I had done and how hard I had worked doing it, and I realized that it didn't mean a thing. It was like chasing the wind — of no use at all. 
While he was thinking about this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, “Joseph, descendant of David, do not be afraid to take Mary to be your wife. For it is by the Holy Spirit that she has conceived. 
I will also give you what you have not asked for: all your life you will have wealth and honour, more than that of any other king. 
When the other ten disciples heard about this, they became angry with the two brothers. 
He ran away, but they chased him, caught him, and cut off his thumbs and big toes. 
Praise the LORD, all nations! : Praise him, all peoples! 
Then I will say to myself, Lucky man! You have all the good things you need for many years. Take life easy, eat, drink, and enjoy yourself!’  
King Solomon was told that Adonijah was afraid of him and that he was holding on to the corners of the altar and had said, “First, I want King Solomon to swear to me that he will not have me put to death.” 
No one likes the poor, not even their neighbours, but the rich have many friends. 
When his brothers saw that their father loved Joseph more than he loved them, they hated their brother so much that they would not speak to him in a friendly manner. 
But about the angels God said, : “God makes his angels winds, : and his servants flames of fire.” 
He also rebuilt the cities that King Hiram had given him, and sent Israelites to settle in them. 
The thought of my pain, my homelessness, is bitter poison; 
When Simon put on his magnificent robe and went up to the holy altar dressed in perfect splendour, he made the Temple courtyard a majestic sight. 
From the very beginning the Word was with God. 
This is the message which God gave to Isaiah son of Amoz about Judah and Jerusalem
He sinned against the LORD, but he was not as bad as his father or his mother Jezebel; he pulled down the image his father had made for the worship of Baal. 
I received Wisdom as soon as I began listening for her, and I have been rewarded with great knowledge. 
Watch over this Temple day and night, this place where you have chosen to be worshipped. Hear me when I face this Temple and pray. 
Look! Here is his concubine and my own daughter, who is a virgin. I'll bring them out now, and you can have them. Do with them whatever you want. But don't do such an awful thing to this man!” 
Whoever touches the dead bodies of the following animals will be unclean until evening: all animals with hoofs, unless their hoofs are divided and they chew the cud, and all four-footed animals with paws. Whoever carries their dead bodies must wash his clothes, but he will still be unclean until evening. 
All Judah's defences crumbled. : When that happened, you brought weapons out of the arsenal. 
The chief priests and the whole Council tried to find some false evidence against Jesus to put him to death; 
“You yourselves must be on guard. You will be arrested and taken to court. You will be beaten in the synagogues; you will stand before rulers and kings for my sake to tell them the Good News.  
Then I saw what looked like a sea of glass mixed with fire. I also saw those who had won the victory over the beast and its image and over the one whose name is represented by a number. They were standing by the sea of glass, holding harps that God had given them 
Then the prophet went to King Ahab and said, “Go back and build up your forces, and make careful plans, because the king of Syria will attack again next spring.” 
Joash became king of Judah at the age of seven.
They took the Covenant Box to the tent which David had prepared for it and put it inside. Then they offered sacrifices and fellowship offerings to God. 
that while we were spiritually dead in our disobedience he brought us to life with Christ. It is by God's grace that you have been saved. 
But do not measure the outer courts, because they have been given to the heathen, who will trample on the Holy City for 42 months. 
I went wandering through the city, : through its streets and alleys. : I looked for the one I love. : I looked, but couldn't find him. 
prophets speak nothing but lies; priests rule as the prophets command, and my people offer no objections. But what will they do when it all comes to an end?”
The king's officials said to him, “How long is this man going to give us trouble? Let the Israelite men go, so that they can worship the LORD their God. Don't you realize that Egypt is ruined?” 
They shall take charge of all the equipment of the Tent and perform the duties for the rest of the Israelites. 
but asked again, “Are you really Esau?” : “I am,” he answered. 
You will be destroyed by fire. Your blood will be shed in your own country, and no one will remember you any more.’ ” The LORD has spoken.
and he asked them, “Whose face and name are these?” 
Indeed, you are our pride and our joy!
The LORD says, : “Listen to me, Israel, the people I have called! : I am God, the first, the last, the only God! 
When you pray, I will answer you. When you call to me, I will respond. : “If you put an end to oppression, to every gesture of contempt, and to every evil word; 
Then Jesus went up a hill and called to himself the men he wanted. They came to him, 
You have committed all these sins, and even though I spoke to you over and over again, you refused to listen. You would not answer when I called you. 
Shaaraim, Adithaim, Gederah, and Gederothaim: fourteen cities, along with the towns round them. 
He touched her hand; the fever left her, and she got up and began to wait on him. 
But the water drowned their enemies; : not one of them was left. 
I will then shoot three arrows at it, as though it were a target. 
The proud are always scornful of me, : but I have not departed from your law. 
King Solomon drafted 30,000 men as forced labour from all over Israel, 
In addition, the leaders of Judah, the priests, and the people followed the sinful example of the nations round them in worshipping idols, and so they defiled the Temple, which the LORD himself had made holy. 
During those five months they will seek death, but will not find it; they will want to die, but death will flee from them. 
down the road after the prophet from Judah and found him sitting under an oak. “Are you the prophet from Judah?” he asked. : “I am,” the man answered. 
As he rode on, people spread their cloaks on the road. 
Listen to my prayer, O LORD, : and hear my cry for help! 
Someone who is in the field must not go back to get his cloak.  
The LORD said to me, 
That is why the tribe of Levi received no land as the other tribes did; what they received was the privilege of being the LORD's priests, as the LORD your God promised.) 
The king felt sorry for him, so he forgave him the debt and let him go. 
Come, people of all nations! Gather round and listen. Let the whole earth and everyone living on it come here and listen. 
So don't be too good or too wise — why kill yourself? 
What God the Father considers to be pure and genuine religion is this: to take care of orphans and widows in their suffering and to keep oneself from being corrupted by the world.My brothers and sisters, as believers in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, you must never treat people in different ways according to their outward appearance. 
On that day I will take you, Zerubbabel my servant, and I will appoint you to rule in my name. You are the one I have chosen.” The LORD Almighty has spoken.
pretty and graceful as a deer. Let her charms keep you happy; let her surround you with her love. 
Pilate answered, “What I have written stays written.” 
And now I want to remind you, my brothers and sisters, of the Good News which I preached to you, which you received, and on which your faith stands firm. 
Put up the surrounding enclosure and hang the curtain at its entrance. 
until I would rather be strangled : than live in this miserable body. 
From the part given to the rest of the people, take one out of every fifty prisoners and the same proportion of the cattle, donkeys, sheep, and goats. Give them to the Levites who are in charge of the LORD's Tent.” 
“These are the people we made fun of. We thought they were a joke. What fools we were! We thought they were mad to live in the way they did, and when they died, we didn't honour them. 
So the promise was fulfilled which the LORD had made to King Jehu: “Your descendants, down to the fourth generation, will be kings of Israel.” 
It was nearly five o'clock when he went to the market place and saw some other men still standing there. ‘Why are you wasting the whole day here doing nothing?’ he asked them.  
But still require them to make the same number of bricks as before, not one brick less. They haven't enough work to do, and that is why they keep asking me to let them go and offer sacrifices to their God! 
When the time came for the evening sacrifice, I got up from where I had been grieving, and still wearing my torn clothes, I knelt in prayer and stretched out my hands to the LORD my God. 
“When the Son of Man comes as King and all the angels with him, he will sit on his royal throne,  
because the LORD had said to Moses, 
With all my heart I will say to the LORD, : “There is no one like you. : You protect the weak from the strong, : the poor from the oppressor.” 
Once more the king sent an officer with fifty men. He went up the hill, fell on his knees in front of Elijah, and pleaded, “Man of God, be merciful to me and my men. Spare our lives! 
He sinned against the LORD, following the wicked example of King Jeroboam son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin. 
“You must not tell me what to do,” Jesus replied. “My time has not yet come.” 
After he said this, Jesus spat on the ground and made some mud with the spittle; he rubbed the mud on the man's eyes 
Listen to me, you devout children of mine, and blossom like a rosebush by a stream. 
Rouse yourself, O Lord, and defend me; : rise up, my God, and plead my cause. 
he sent spies and found out that Saul was indeed there. 
They will attack you from the north, bringing a large army with chariots and supply wagons. Protected by shields and helmets, they will surround you. I will hand you over to them, and they will judge you by their own laws. 
Bethany was less than three kilometres from Jerusalem, 
Accept my prayer of thanks, O LORD, : and teach me your commands. 
Honour the LORD, your God, : before he brings darkness, : and you stumble on the mountains; : before he turns into deep darkness : the light you hoped for. 
And he said to the woman, “I will increase your trouble in pregnancy and your pain in giving birth. In spite of this, you will still have desire for your husband, yet you will be subject to him.” 
Ahijah took off the new robe he was wearing, tore it into twelve pieces, 
He is not here; he has been raised. Remember what he said to you while he was in Galilee
A person is born physically of human parents, but is born spiritually of the Spirit.  
The Lord answered, “Who, then, is the faithful and wise servant? He is the one that his master will put in charge, to run the household and give the other servants their share of the food at the proper time.  
a woman during her monthly period, or a man who has sexual intercourse with a woman who is ritually unclean.
Teach me your ways, O LORD; : make them known to me. 
No one who tells lies in court can escape punishment; he is doomed. 
They will sing for joy, but you will cry with a broken heart. 
For the scripture says: : “Be happy, you childless woman! : Shout and cry with joy, you who never felt the pains of childbirth! : For the woman who was deserted will have more children : than the woman whose husband never left her.” 
And so I will throw her on to a bed where she and those who committed adultery with her will suffer terribly. I will do this now unless they repent of the wicked things they did with her.  
Why should this great thing happen to me, that my Lord's mother comes to visit me? 
He touched my lips with the burning coal and said, “This has touched your lips, and now your guilt is gone, and your sins are forgiven.” 
And if at any time foreigners living among you, whether on a temporary or a permanent basis, make a food offering, a smell that pleases the LORD, they are to observe the same regulations. 
‘Friend, how did you get in here without wedding clothes?’ the king asked him. But the man said nothing.  
The kings gathered together : and came to attack Mount Zion. 
But until I come, you must hold firmly to what you have.  
The LORD told me to say, “Kings of Judah and people of Jerusalem, listen to what I, the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, have to say. I am going to bring such a disaster on this place that everyone who hears about it will be stunned. 
They made a covenant in which they agreed to worship the LORD, the God of their ancestors, with all their heart and soul. 
I pray you, O God, remember to my credit everything that I have done for this people.
It was then that some Babylonians took the opportunity to denounce the Jews. 
King Zedekiah sinned against the LORD, just as King Jehoiakim had done. 
She will run after her lovers but will not catch them. She will look for them but will not find them. Then she will say, “I am going back to my first husband — I was better off then than I am now.” 
Then what the prophet Jeremiah had said came true: “They took the thirty silver coins, the amount the people of Israel had agreed to pay for him, 
They became holy when they were presented at the LORD's altar. So take the firepans of these men who were put to death for their sin, beat them into thin plates, and make a covering for the altar. It will be a warning to the people of Israel.” 
Even death and destruction : Admit they have heard only rumours. 
But he answered his father, ‘Look, all these years I have worked for you like a slave, and I have never disobeyed your orders. What have you given me? Not even a goat for me to have a feast with my friends!  
Then they went to the chief priests and elders and said, “We have taken a solemn vow together not to eat a thing until we have killed Paul. 
Do not make any treaties with the people of the country into which you are going, because this could be a fatal trap for you. 
Zimri, one of his officers who was in charge of half the king's chariots, plotted against him. One day in Tirzah, Elah was getting drunk in the home of Arza, who was in charge of the palace. 
It began to curse God, his name, the place where he lives, and all those who live in heaven. 
“Your Majesty, you are the tree, tall and strong. You have grown so great that you reach the sky, and your power extends over the whole world. 
So I went in and looked. The walls were covered with drawings of snakes and other unclean animals, and of the other things which the Israelites were worshipping. 
You were watching to see if I would sin, : so that you could refuse to forgive me. 
But if you will not accept our terms and be circumcised, we will take her and leave.” 
The whole community was threatening to stone them to death, but suddenly the people saw the dazzling light of the LORD's presence appear over the tent. 
Early on Sunday morning, while it was still dark, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb and saw that the stone had been taken away from the entrance. 
A good person knows the rights of the poor, but wicked people cannot understand such things. 
Jesus drank the wine and said, “It is finished!” : Then he bowed his head and died. 
They pulled up the plants of the desert and ate them, : even the tasteless roots of the broom tree! 
God has taken flocks away from your father and given them to me. 
The lily-shaped bronze capitals were on top of the columns. : And so the work on the columns was completed. 
The Midianites, the Amalekites, and the desert tribesmen were spread out in the valley like a swarm of locusts, and they had as many camels as there were grains of sand on the seashore. 
When that day comes, the Lord will once again use his power and bring back home those of his people who are left in Assyria and Egypt, in the lands of Pathros, Ethiopia, Elam, Babylonia, and Hamath, and in the coastlands and o the islands of the sea. 
I will live in perfect freedom, : because I try to obey your teachings. 
There is a man in your kingdom who has the spirit of the holy gods in him. When your father was king, this man showed good sense, knowledge, and wisdom like the wisdom of the gods. And King Nebuchadnezzar, your father, made him chief of the fortune tellers, magicians, wizards, and astrologers. 
“Moab has been destroyed; : listen to the children crying. 
My child, when you feel ill, don't ignore it. Pray to the Lord, and he will make you well. 
Samuel stayed in bed until morning; then he got up and opened the doors of the house of the LORD. He was afraid to tell Eli about the vision. 
“Then I instructed Joshua: ‘You have seen all that the LORD your God did to those two kings, Sihon and Og; and he will do the same to everyone else whose land you invade. 
The spirit replied, ‘I will go and make all Ahab's prophets tell lies.’ The LORD said, ‘Go and deceive him. You will succeed.’ ” 
“Do not sacrifice to the LORD your God cattle or sheep that have any defects; the LORD hates this. 
Pay attention to what your father and mother tell you, my child. 
Some people keep on doing good, and seek glory, honour, and immortal life; to them God will give eternal life. 
You know that I did not hold back anything that would be of help to you as I preached and taught in public and in your homes. 
I am writing this to you so that you may know that you have eternal life — you that believe in the Son of God. 
They have not known the path of peace, 
Your enemies insult your chosen king, O LORD! : They insult him wherever he goes. 
She fasted during that entire period except when fasting was forbidden: the day before the Sabbath and the Sabbath itself, the eve of the New Moon Festival and the Festival itself, and all the festivals and holidays observed by the people of Israel. 
Anyone who is hungry should eat at home, so that you will not come under God's judgement as you meet together. As for the other matters, I will settle them when I come.
or by striking him with his fist, he is guilty of murder and is to be put to death. The dead man's nearest relative has the responsibility for putting the murderer to death. When he finds him, he is to kill him. 
And now the LORD says, “In exactly three years Moab's great wealth will disappear. Of its many people, only a few will survive, and they will be weak.”
The LORD commanded Moses 
It is to be square and folded double, 22 centimetres long and 22 centimetres wide. 
The LORD said, “Do this to prove to the Israelites that the LORD, the God of their ancestors, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, has appeared to you.” 
Jesus meant that Lazarus had died, but they thought he meant natural sleep. 
“Who is the LORD?” the king demanded. “Why should I listen to him and let Israel go? I do not know the LORD; and I will not let Israel go.” 
Not even the chief angel Michael did this. In his quarrel with the Devil, when they argued about who would have the body of Moses, Michael did not dare to condemn the Devil with insulting words, but said, “The Lord rebuke you!” 
nor because of any fault of mine, O LORD, : that they hurry to their places. 
east of the Jordan, as far south as the town of Aroer on the River Arnon — this included the territories of Gilead and Bashan, where the tribes of Gad, Reuben, and East Manasseh lived. 
Lift up your stick and hold it out over the sea. The water will divide, and the Israelites will be able to walk through the sea on dry ground. 
While I was watching, another beast appeared. It looked like a leopard, but on its back there were four wings, like the wings of a bird, and it had four heads. It had a look of authority about it. 
You have been told how I used to live when I was devoted to the Jewish religion, how I persecuted without mercy the church of God and did my best to destroy it. 
Gehazi went on ahead and held Elisha's stick over the child, but there was no sound or any other sign of life. So he went back to meet Elisha and said, “The boy didn't wake up.” 
Jehu wrote them another letter: “If you are with me, and are ready to follow my orders, bring the heads of King Ahab's descendants to me at Jezreel by this time tomorrow.” : The seventy descendants of King Ahab were under the care of the leading citizens of Samaria, who were bringing them up. 
An arrogant person's character shows through when he is in a drunken argument, in the same way that iron is tested when it is heated red-hot and then dipped in water. 
Once again they will live under my protection. : They will grow corn : and be fruitful like a vineyard. : They will be as famous as the wine of Lebanon. 
If they are really prophets and if they have my message, let them ask me, the LORD Almighty, not to allow the treasures that remain in the Temple and in the royal palace to be taken to Babylonia.” 
(Laban gave his slave woman Bilhah to his daughter Rachel as her maid.) 
Gershon had two sons: Ladan and Shimei. 
So the man who marries does well, but the one who doesn't marry does even better. 
You are doomed! You say to a piece of wood, “Wake up!” or to a block of stone, “Get up!” Can an idol reveal anything to you? It may be covered with silver and gold, but there is no life in it. 
I will always thank the LORD; : I will never stop praising him. 
Hurry to her and find out if everything is all right with her, her husband, and her son.” : She told Gehazi that everything was all right, 
But none of the people of Israel will be willing to listen; they will not even listen to me. All of them are stubborn and defiant. 
Then Jesus turned to the disciples and said to them privately, “How fortunate you are to see the things you see!  
After they had finished eating, the old prophet saddled the donkey for the prophet from Judah, 
And if you obey me and keep my laws and commands, as your father David did, I will give you a long life.” 
The Lord had made the Syrians hear what sounded like the advance of a large army, with horses and chariots, and the Syrians thought that the king of Israel had hired Hittite and Egyptian kings and their armies to attack them. 
This included everyone, except Caleb son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite and Joshua son of Nun; they remained loyal to the LORD. 
In two or three days he will revive us, and we will live in his presence. 
All the guests and servants were now gone, and Judith and Holofernes were alone in the tent. Judith stood by Holofernes' bed and prayed silently, “O Lord, God Almighty, help me with what I am about to do for the glory of Jerusalem. 
You are my friends! Take pity on me! : The hand of God has struck me down. 
Wash away all my evil : and make me clean from my sin! 
Those false prophets speak about matters of the world, and the world listens to them because they belong to the world. 
The holy God of Israel, : the LORD who saves you, says: : “I am the LORD your God, : the one who wants to teach you for your own good : and direct you in the way you should go. 
It is better to lose your money by helping a relative or a friend than to lose it by letting it rust away under a rock somewhere. 
Then Zebah and Zalmunna said to Gideon, “Come on, kill us yourself. It takes a man to do a man's job.” So Gideon killed them and took the ornaments that were on the necks of their camels. 
his sons, his grandsons, his daughters, and his granddaughters. 
Korah son of Izhar, from the Levite clan of Kohath, rebelled against the leadership of Moses. He was joined by three members of the tribe of Reuben — Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, and On son of Peleth — and by 250 other Israelites, well-known leaders chosen by the community. 
the bronze altar with its bronze grating, its poles, and all its equipment; the washbasin and its base; 
The God of Abraham and the God of Nahor will judge between us.” Then, in the name of the God whom his father Isaac worshipped, Jacob solemnly vowed to keep this promise. 
Everything else that Amon did is recorded in The History of the Kings of Judah. 
A group of people who have no respect for the Law is like a pile of kindling; they will meet a fiery end. 
After sunset I went out, dug a grave, and buried the man. 
and wore bronze armour that weighed about 57 kilogrammes and a bronze helmet. 
Joab said to him, “If you see that the Syrians are defeating me, come and help me, and if the Ammonites are defeating you, I will go and help you. 
This means that death is at work in us, but life is at work in you. 
He said, “Listen to the dream I had. 
When Enosh was ninety, he had a son, Kenan, 
Later she bore a daughter, whom she named Dinah. 
Sarai was not able to have children. 
May God, our source of peace, be with all of you. Amen.
I know how skilful your woodmen are, so send me cedar, cypress, and juniper logs from Lebanon. I am ready to send my men to assist yours 
The men followed Joshua's orders. As the LORD had commanded Joshua, they took twelve stones from the middle of the Jordan, one for each of the tribes of Israel, carried them to the camping place, and put them down there. 
On that day take some of the best fruit from your trees, take palm branches and the branches of leafy trees, and begin a religious festival to honour the LORD your God. 
“Sovereign LORD, may you always look with favour on your people Israel and their king, and hear their prayer whenever they call to you for help. 
Joshua sent the people of Israel on their way, and each man went to take possession of his own share of the land. 
put him under guard, and waited for the LORD to tell them what to do with him. 
May the children that the LORD will give you by this young woman make your family like the family of Perez, the son of Judah and Tamar.” 
And so I do my best always to have a clear conscience before God and human beings. 
For we cannot do a thing against the truth, but only for it. 
I said the same thing to King Zedekiah of Judah, “Submit to the king of Babylonia. Serve him and his people, and you will live. 
The LORD says, “People of Jerusalem, go and punish your enemies! I will make you as strong as a bull with iron horns and bronze hoofs. You will crush many nations, and the wealth they got by violence you will present to me, the Lord of the whole world.”
If you hurt your brother or sister because of something you eat, then you are no longer acting from love. Do not let the food that you eat ruin the person for whom Christ died! 
Two people can resist an attack that would defeat one person alone. A rope made of three cords is hard to break. 
Let us stay in your land. Protect us from those who want to destroy us.” : (Oppression and destruction will end, and those who are devastating the country will be gone. 
Listen! Wisdom is calling out in the streets and market places, 
In this way what the prophet Jeremiah had said came true
We are going to leave here and go to Bethel, where I will build an altar to the God who helped me in the time of my trouble and who has been with me everywhere I have gone.” 
the LORD said to Hosea, “Name him ‘Jezreel’, because it will not be long before I punish the king of Israel for the murders that his ancestor Jehu committed at Jezreel. I am going to put an end to Jehu's dynasty.  
Each day for seven days you shall present a food offering. On the eighth day come together again for worship and present a food offering. It is a day for worship, and you shall do no work. 
And this Good News about the Kingdom will be preached through all the world for a witness to all nations; and then the end will come. 
Some soldiers from the tribe of Manasseh went over to David's side when he was marching out with the Philistines to fight King Saul. Actually he did not help the Philistines, for their kings were afraid that he would betray them to his former master Saul, so they sent him back to Ziklag. 
Someone else said, “I will follow you, sir; but first let me go and say goodbye to my family.” 
I am not afraid of the thousands of enemies : who surround me on every side. 
But if you disobey and refuse to listen, and are led away to worship other gods, 
In the name of the Most High, you brought a dead man back to life. 
The carpenter measures the wood. He outlines a figure with chalk, carves it out with his tools, and makes it in the form of a man, a handsome human figure, to be placed in his house. 
They do not know the meaning of fear, : and no sword can turn them back. 
Jesus and his disciples were at supper. The Devil had already put into the heart of Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, the thought of betraying Jesus.  
There they put me to the test and tried me, says God, : although they had seen what I did for forty years. 
The king is not to have a large number of horses for his army, and he is not to send people to Egypt to buy horses, because the LORD has said that his people are never to return there. 
Then your arms, that have protected you, will tremble, and your legs, now strong, will grow weak. Your teeth will be too few to chew your food, and your eyes too dim to see clearly. 
I have come with my Father's authority, but you have not received me; when, however, someone comes with his own authority, you will receive him.  
“I know,” she replied, “that he will rise to life on the last day.” 
The winter is over; the rains have stopped; 
Some men came from Judea to Antioch and started teaching the believers, “You cannot be saved unless you are circumcised as the Law of Moses requires.” 
People of Israel, listen to this message which the LORD has spoken about you, the entire nation that he brought out of Egypt
Our leaders have been taken and hanged; : our elders are shown no respect. 
sheep and cattle, and the wild animals too; 
He took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee. Grief and anguish came over him, 
And so I sent for you at once, and you have been good enough to come. Now we are all here in the presence of God, waiting to hear anything that the Lord has instructed you to say.” 
The Lord watches over those who love him; he is their strong protection and firm support. He shelters them from the heat, shades them from the noonday sun, and keeps them from stumbling and falling. 
But each one will be raised in the right order: Christ, first of all; then, at the time of his coming, those who belong to him. 
He said to them, “Why are you sleeping? Get up and pray that you will not fall into temptation.” 
This is the message that the LORD gave to Zephaniah during the time that Josiah son of Amon was king of Judah. (Zephaniah was descended from King Hezekiah through Amariah, Gedaliah, and Cushi.) 
When your children ask you, ‘What does this ritual mean?’ 
and will be a better defence against your enemies than the strongest shield or stoutest spear. 
They would not have been guilty of sin if I had not done among them the things that no one else ever did; as it is, they have seen what I did, and they hate both me and my Father.  
Some time later many of the people, both men and women, began to complain against their fellow-Jews. 
Then Holofernes and his entire army set out, advancing ahead of King Nebuchadnezzar. The chariots, the cavalry, and the infantry marched out to overrun the entire western region. 
Look at what the king of Israel is trying to kill! Look at what he is chasing! A dead dog, a flea! 
You tell us to return to what we were; : you change us back to dust. 
but while he was still alive, he gave presents to the sons his other wives had borne him. Then he sent these sons to the land of the East, away from his son Isaac. 
Then their evil desires conceive and give birth to sin; and sin, when it is full-grown, gives birth to death. 
The people say to me, “Where are those threats the LORD made against us? Let him carry them out now!” 
After the slaughter Jacob's other sons looted the town to take revenge for their sister's disgrace. 
Joshua, along with all the people of Israel, seized Achan, the silver, the cloak, and the bar of gold, together with Achan's sons and daughters, his cattle, donkeys, and sheep, his tent, and everything else he owned; and they took them to Trouble Valley. 
He was driven away from human society, and his mind became like that of an animal. He lived with wild donkeys, ate grass like an ox, and slept in the open air with nothing to protect him from the dew. Finally he admitted that the Supreme God controls all human kingdoms and can give them to anyone he chooses. 
He destroyed some of them so completely that they are not even remembered any more. 
Then King Ahab of Israel and King Jehoshaphat of Judah went to attack the city of Ramoth in Gilead. 
Curse the day I was born! : Forget the day my mother gave me birth! 
He examines the good and the wicked alike; : the lawless he hates with all his heart. 
‘I swear that because they did not remain loyal to me, none of the men twenty years old or older who came out of Egypt will enter the land that I promised to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.’ 
The LORD is angry with all the nations and all their armies. He has condemned them to destruction. 
Even today the descendants of Israel do not eat the muscle which is on the hip joint, because it was on this muscle that Jacob was struck.
It was Caiaphas who had advised the Jewish authorities that it was better that one man should die for all the people. 
The LORD has stirred up the kings of Media, because he intends to destroy Babylonia. That is how he will take revenge for the destruction of his Temple. : The attacking officers command, “Sharpen your arrows! Get your shields ready! 
Another angel, who had a gold incense burner, came and stood at the altar. He was given a lot of incense to add to the prayers of all God's people and to offer it on the gold altar that stands before the throne. 
There may be no limit to the number of people a king rules; when he is gone, no one will be grateful for what he has done. It is useless. It is like chasing the wind.
Ezra had devoted his life to studying the Law of the LORD, to practising it, and to teaching all its laws and regulations to the people of Israel. 
I myself have sworn that the city of Bozrah will become a horrifying sight and a desert; people will jeer at it and use its name as a curse. All the nearby villages will be in ruins for ever. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
Those who try to hide their plans from the LORD are doomed! They carry out their schemes in secret and think no one will see them or know what they are doing. 
Anger is cruel and destructive, but it is nothing compared to jealousy. 
Let them serve as judges for the people on a permanent basis. They can bring all the difficult cases to you, but they themselves can decide all the smaller disputes. That will make it easier for you, as they share your burden. 
He said to Joseph, “Tell your brothers to load their animals and to return to the land of Canaan. 
Can you help God stretch out the sky : and make it as hard as polished metal? 
and destroying their cities. As they passed a fertile field, every Israelite would throw a stone on it until finally all the fields were covered; they also stopped up the springs and cut down the fruit trees. At last only the capital city of Kir Heres was left, and the slingers surrounded it and attacked it. 
The top of the altar was a square, six metres on each side. 
Now, Job, listen to what I am saying; : be quiet and let me speak. 
Clan of Pashhur: Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethanel, Jozabad, and Elasah
The two men took Jesus' body and wrapped it in linen with the spices according to the Jewish custom of preparing a body for burial. 
For what this world considers to be wisdom is nonsense in God's sight. As the scripture says, “God traps the wise in their cleverness”; 
Zedekiah was 21 years old when he became king of Judah, and he ruled in Jerusalem for eleven years. His mother was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah from the city of Libnah. 
King Hezekiah contributed 1,000 bulls and 7,000 sheep for the people to kill and eat, and the officials gave them another thousand bulls and 10,000 sheep. A large number of priests went through the ritual of purification. 
Joshua captured all these cities and their kings, putting everyone to death, just as Moses, the LORD's servant, had commanded. 
When that time comes, no prophet will be proud of his visions, or act like a prophet, or wear a prophet's coarse garment in order to deceive people. 
Serve the LORD with fear; 
You brought a grapevine out of Egypt; : you drove out other nations and planted it in their land. 
Whoever is faithful in small matters will be faithful in large ones; whoever is dishonest in small matters will be dishonest in large ones.  
The walls of the main room and of the inner room were all decorated with carved figures of winged creatures, palm trees, and flowers. 
He measured this room, and found it was four metres deep. It formed that end of the gateway which was nearest the Temple, and at its far end the walls were one metre thick. 
Every year he would go round to Bethel, Gilgal, and Mizpah, and in these places he would settle disputes. 
You know that whoever does any of these disgusting things will no longer be considered one of God's people. 
May the LORD remove from the community of Israel those who did this, and never again let them participate in the offerings our nation brings to the LORD Almighty. 
Who are you making fun of? Who are you liars jeering at? 
You have died with Christ and are set free from the ruling spirits of the universe. Why, then, do you live as though you belonged to this world? Why do you obey such rules as 
When the king heard this, he was upset and did his best to find some way to rescue Daniel. He kept trying until sunset. 
saying to herself, “If I just touch his clothes, I will get well.” 
Then Jesus gave them strict orders not to tell this to anyone. 
We are given no straw, but we are still ordered to make bricks! And now we are being beaten. It is your people that are at fault.” 
Foolish children bring grief to their fathers and bitter regrets to their mothers. 
They all were filled with fear and praised God. “A great prophet has appeared among us!” they said; “God has come to save his people!” 
Corrupt judges accept secret bribes, and then justice is not done. 
and then he told them, “Now draw some water out and take it to the man in charge of the feast.” They took him the water, 
as to his divine holiness, he was shown with great power to be the Son of God by being raised from death. 
Apollos then decided to go to Achaia, so the believers in Ephesus helped him by writing to the believers in Achaia, urging them to welcome him. When he arrived, he was a great help to those who through God's grace had become believers. 
Good people will be remembered as a blessing, but the wicked will soon be forgotten. 
The king answered, “I will take him with me and do for him whatever you want. And I will do for you anything you ask.” 
The LORD said to Jerusalem, “I will make them prosperous again — Sodom and her villages and Samaria and her villages. Yes, I will make you prosperous too. 
Even a king depends on the harvest. 
But I will use Moab as my washbasin : and I will throw my sandals on Edom, : as a sign that I own it. : Did the Philistines think they would shout in triumph over me?” 
He prayed, “LORD, God of my master Abraham, give me success today and keep your promise to my master. 
We have rebelled against you, rejected you, and refused to follow you. We have oppressed others and turned away from you. Our thoughts are false; our words are lies. 
Before the guests went to bed, the men of Sodom surrounded the house. All the men of the city, both young and old, were there. 
There are three kinds of people I cannot stand, whose behaviour I find highly offensive: : poor people who are arrogant, : rich people who lie, : and foolish old men who commit adultery. 
They did not become God's children by natural means, that is, by being born as the children of a human father; God himself was their Father. 
I do not trust in my bow : or in my sword to save me; 
Howl and cry for help, all you Philistine cities! Be terrified, all of you! A cloud of dust is coming from the north — it is an army with no cowards in its ranks. 
“This is the command of Cyrus, Emperor of Persia. The LORD, the God of Heaven, has made me ruler over the whole world and has given me the responsibility of building a temple for him in Jerusalem in Judah. 
So I went up to him and killed him, because I knew that he would die anyway as soon as he fell. Then I took the crown from his head and the bracelet from his arm, and I have brought them to you, sir.” 
What he did displeased the LORD, and the LORD killed him also. 
The Israelites were defeated by David's men; it was a terrible defeat, with 20,000 men killed that day. 
“O Lord our God, you showed your power by bringing your people out of Egypt, and your power is still remembered. We have sinned; we have done wrong. 
In the past he allowed all people to go their own way. 
He detested the arrogance of the people among whom Lot lived, and he did not spare them. 
So his officials said to him, “Your Majesty, let us find a young woman to stay with you and take care of you. She will lie close to you and keep you warm.” 
Joshua said to the tribes of Ephraim and West Manasseh, “There are indeed many of you, and you are very powerful. You shall have more than one share. 
“Once there was a man who went out to sow corn. As he scattered the seed in the field, some of it fell along the path, where it was stepped on, and the birds ate it up.  
For we know that up to the present time all of creation groans with pain, like the pain of childbirth. 
And then from his mouth the dragon poured out a flood of water after the woman, so that it would carry her away. 
So Jephthah crossed the river to fight the Ammonites, and the LORD gave him victory. 
As for us, brothers and sisters, when we were separated from you for a little while — not in our thoughts, of course, but only in body — how we missed you and how hard we tried to see you again! 
I begged your disciples to drive it out, but they couldn't.” 
King Saul, your brothers, and all the other Israelites are in the Valley of Elah fighting the Philistines.” 
Ozni, Eri, 
The LORD has made a solemn promise, : And by his power he will carry it out: : “Your corn will no longer be food for your enemies, : And foreigners will no longer drink your wine. 
Jesus said to them, “You don't know what you are asking for. Can you drink the cup of suffering that I must drink? Can you be baptized in the way I must be baptized?” 
So David summoned all the people of Israel to Jerusalem in order to bring the Covenant Box to the place he had prepared for it. 
They give knowledge to me, your servant; : I am rewarded for obeying them. 
Whenever the cloud lifted, the people of Israel broke camp, and they set up camp again in the place where the cloud came down. 
From Paul, whose call to be an apostle did not come from human beings or by human means, but from Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from death. 
She gets up before daylight to prepare food for her family and to tell her servant women what to do. 
Anyone who dares to disobey either the judge or the priest on duty is to be put to death; in this way you will remove this evil from Israel. 
Have you really rejected us? : Aren't you going to march out with our armies? 
so give me the wisdom and knowledge I need to rule over them. Otherwise, how would I ever be able to rule this great people of yours?” 
Why am I so sad? : Why am I so troubled? : I will put my hope in God, : and once again I will praise him, : my saviour and my God.
When God gave the wind its power : And determined the size of the sea; 
Where do all the fights and quarrels among you come from? They come from your desires for pleasure, which are constantly fighting within you. 
But you are enthroned as the Holy One, : the one whom Israel praises. 
The head was brought in on a dish and given to the girl, who took it to her mother. 
“Remember that all these things will take place before the people now living have all died.  
each of you must place in a basket the first part of each crop that you harvest and you must take it with you to the one place of worship. 
I will bless you and give you many children; I will keep my part of the covenant that I made with you. 
When the Syrians of Damascus sent an army to help King Hadadezer, David attacked it and killed 22,000 men. 
There had never been a king like him before, who served the LORD with all his heart, mind, and strength, obeying all the Law of Moses; nor has there been a king like him since. 
So they went out and preached that people should turn away from their sins. 
At once they left their nets and went with him. 
After two months she came back to her father. He did what he had promised the LORD, and she died still a virgin. : This was the origin of the custom in Israel 
He sinned against the LORD, following the wicked example of his predecessor King Jeroboam son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin. 
The LORD has made them give confusing advice. As a result, Egypt does everything wrong and staggers like a drunken man slipping on his own vomit. 
In every town in the land : I threw you to the wind like straw. : I destroyed you, my people, : I killed your children : because you did not stop your evil ways. 
“This man is condemned to lose his children, : to be a man who will never succeed. : He will have no descendants : who will rule in Judah : as David's successors. : I, the LORD, have spoken.”How terrible will be the LORD's judgement on those rulers who destroy and scatter his people! 
With joy and gladness they come : and enter the king's palace. 
So he took me to the inner courtyard of the Temple. There near the entrance of the sanctuary, between the altar and the passage, were about 25 men. They had turned their backs to the sanctuary and were bowing low towards the east, worshipping the rising sun. 
Never do anything without thinking it through, and once you have done something, don't look back and wish you had done something else. 
He said this because Jesus had ordered the evil spirit to go out of him. Many times it had seized him, and even though he was kept a prisoner, his hands and feet fastened with chains, he would break the chains and be driven by the demon out into the desert. 
The next morning, when I woke up and was going to feed my baby, I saw that it was dead. I looked at it more closely and saw that it was not my child.” 
Elisha asked Gehazi, “What can I do for her then?” : He answered, “Well, she has no son, and her husband is an old man.” 
just as we are about to be caught, we wake up and are relieved to find there is nothing to be afraid of. 
You have given me no children, and one of my slaves will inherit my property.” 
These people also worshipped the LORD and chose from among their own number all sorts of people to serve as priests at the pagan places of worship and to offer sacrifices for them there. 
The tenants seized his slaves, beat one, killed another, and stoned another.  
I wouldn't listen to my teachers. I paid no attention to them. 
Some of the families of the clan of Kohath were assigned towns and pasture lands in the territory of Ephraim
Obed Edom was allotted the south gate, and his sons were allotted to guard the storerooms. 
During this time I told the men in charge that they and all their helpers had to stay in Jerusalem at night, so that we could guard the city at night as well as work in the daytime. 
you set the limits of the earth; : you made summer and winter. 
Kain, Gibeah, and Timnah: ten cities, along with the towns round them. 
they begged us and pleaded for the privilege of having a part in helping God's people in Judea. 
Then the disciples asked Jesus, “Why do the teachers of the Law say that Elijah has to come first?” 
They will not triumph over me, : and I will know that you are pleased with me. 
When they are once more living in safety in their own land, with no one to threaten them, they will be able to forget how they were disgraced for having betrayed me. 
Then Balaam got ready and went back home, and Balak went on his way.
‘Build houses and settle down. Plant gardens and eat what you grow in them. 
No one has ever seen or heard of a God like you, who does such deeds for those who put their hope in him. 
Gad went to David, told him what the LORD had said, and asked, “Which is it to be? 
Then I said, “What hurts me most is this — : that God is no longer powerful.” 
Keep me from being overcome by greed or lust; do not leave me at the mercy of these shameless passions. 
They gave as much as they could for this work, and the total came to 500 kilogrammes of gold, 2.8 tonnes of silver, and 100 robes for priests. 
When a fool speaks, he is ruining himself; he gets caught in the trap of his own words. 
“I inherited this vineyard from my ancestors,” Naboth replied. “The LORD forbid that I should let you have it!” 
He prayed, “LORD God of Israel, in all heaven and earth there is no god like you. You keep your covenant with your people and show them your love when they live in wholehearted obedience to you. 
Now I weep for Sibmah's vines as I weep for Jazer. My tears fall for Heshbon and Elealeh, because there is no harvest to make the people glad. 
All through the night get up again and again to cry out to the Lord; : Pour out your heart and beg him for mercy on your children — : Children starving to death on every street corner! 
How happy are those who have no doubts about me!” 
Then Elijah took off his cloak, rolled it up, and struck the water with it; the water divided, and he and Elisha crossed to the other side on dry ground. 
The women of the neighbourhood named the boy Obed. They told everyone, “A son has been born to Naomi!” : Obed became the father of Jesse, who was the father of David. 
They then sent a servant woman to take a lamp and see if he was still alive. As she opened the door, she could see that both of them were sound asleep. 
Some of the seed fell among thorn bushes, which grew up with the plants and choked them.  
The chemist mixes these medicines, and the doctor will use them to cure diseases and ease pain. There is no end to the activities of the Lord, who gives health to the people of the world. 
Jonadab said to Amnon, “You are the king's son, yet day after day I see you looking sad. What's the matter?” : “I'm in love with Tamar, the sister of my half-brother Absalom,” he answered. 
and forty silver bases to go under them, two bases under each frame to hold its two projections. 
Now I announce that I will punish Edom and kill every person and animal there. I will make it a waste, from the city of Teman to the city of Dedan, and the people will be killed in battle. 
When I did not confess my sins, : I was worn out from crying all day long. 
Elpaal had three sons: Eber, Misham, and Shemed. It was Shemed who built the cities of Ono and Lod and the surrounding villages. 
“At the same time, I gave them the following instructions: ‘The LORD our God has given you this land east of the Jordan to occupy. Now arm your fighting men and send them across the Jordan ahead of the other tribes of Israel, to help them to occupy their land. 
He said to me, “Israel, you are my servant; : because of you, people will praise me.” 
Jonathan killed the Philistine commander in Geba, and all the Philistines heard about it. Then Saul sent messengers to call the Hebrews to war by blowing a trumpet throughout the whole country. 
The Sovereign LORD Almighty says to his people who live in Zion, “Do not be afraid of the Assyrians, even though they oppress you as the Egyptians used to do. 
Since they were unable to prove who their ancestors were, they were not accepted as priests. 
I conquered the cities of Calno and Carchemish, the cities of Hamath and Arpad. I conquered Samaria and Damascus. 
And I saw the Lamb break open the sixth seal. There was a violent earthquake, and the sun became black like coarse black cloth, and the moon turned completely red like blood. 
Judah said, “Let her keep the things. We don't want people to laugh at us. I did try to pay her, but you couldn't find her.” 
David said to the messenger, “Encourage Joab and tell him not to be upset, since you never can tell who will die in battle. Tell him to launch a stronger attack on the city and capture it.” 
giving wealth to those who love me, : filling their houses with treasures. 
for the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.” 
All these things are like the first pains of childbirth. 
When King Solomon finished his prayer, fire came down from heaven and burnt up the sacrifices that had been offered, and the dazzling light of the LORD's presence filled the Temple. 
Whenever you go into a house, first say, ‘Peace be with this house.’  
Do not let proud people attack me : or the wicked make me run away. 
I, the LORD God of Israel, promised in the past that your family and your clan would serve me as priests for all time. But now I say that I won't have it any longer! Instead, I will honour those who honour me, and I will treat with contempt those who despise me. 
All the officials and all the citizens will be like their ruler. 
And you, too, must be ready, because the Son of Man will come at an hour when you are not expecting him.” 
Let the people of Israel say, : “His love is eternal.” 
After the lambs and goats had been killed, the Levites skinned them, and the priests sprinkled the blood on the altar. 
Then Manoah prayed to the LORD, “Please, LORD, let the man of God that you sent come back to us and tell us what we must do with the boy when he is born.” 
The LORD will judge, and he will decide which one of us is wrong. May he look into the matter, defend me, and save me from you.” 
You plotted evil against me, but God turned it into good, in order to preserve the lives of many people who are alive today because of what happened. 
He went into the house of God, and he and his men ate the bread offered to God, even though it was against the Law for them to eat it — only the priests were allowed to eat that bread.  
He was taught all the wisdom of the Egyptians and became a great man in words and deeds. 
Yes, you are the voice of the people. : When you die, wisdom will die with you. 
Then the disciples came to Jesus and asked him, “Why do you use parables when you talk to the people?” 
Tell the sorcerers to curse that day, : those who know how to control Leviathan. 
Some time later Joseph was told that his father was ill. So he took his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim, and went to see Jacob. 
God seizes me by my collar : and twists my clothes out of shape. 
If he intends to harm you, may the LORD strike me dead if I don't let you know about it and get you safely away. May the LORD be with you as he was with my father! 
and when some Midianite traders came by, the brothers pulled Joseph out of the well and sold him for twenty pieces of silver to the Ishmaelites, who took him to Egypt. 
As they talked and discussed, Jesus himself drew near and walked along with them; 
But the worship of Baal, the god of shame, has made us lose flocks and herds, sons and daughters — everything that our ancestors have worked for since ancient times. 
You have sent troubles and suffering on me, : but you will restore my strength; : you will keep me from the grave. 
The princess told the woman, “Take this baby and nurse him for me, and I will pay you.” So she took the baby and nursed him. 
Then we cried out for help to the LORD, the God of our ancestors. He heard us and saw our suffering, hardship, and misery. 
Each piece was the same size, twelve metres long and two metres wide. 
All the people of Israel left, 
I will give you wisdom and knowledge. And in addition, I will give you more wealth, treasure, and fame than any king has ever had before or will ever have again.” 
Tell them that you are my sister; then because of you they will let me live and treat me well.” 
The holy God of Israel sets us free — : his name is the LORD Almighty. 
LORD, your constant love reaches the heavens; : your faithfulness extends to the skies. 
From Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by God's will, and from our brother Timothy — : To the church of God in Corinth, and to all God's people throughout Achaia
at the age of twenty, and he ruled in Jerusalem for sixteen years. He did not follow the good example of his ancestor King David; instead, he did what was not pleasing to the LORD his God 
“You hoped for large harvests, but they turned out to be small. And when you brought the harvest home, I blew it away. Why did I do that? Because my Temple lies in ruins while every one of you is busy working on his own house. 
They think that the dreams they tell will make my people forget me, just as their ancestors forgot me and turned to Baal. 
For there is no permanent city for us here on earth; we are looking for the city which is to come. 
The following Levites gave a call to worship: Jeshua, Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabneiah, Sherebiah, Hodiah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah. They said: : “Stand up and praise the LORD your God; : praise him for ever and ever! : Let everyone praise his glorious name, : although no human praise is great enough.” 
All this will happen because the people of Israel have sinned and rebelled against God. Who is to blame for Israel's rebellion? Samaria, the capital city itself! Who is guilty of idolatry in Judah? Jerusalem itself! 
You created those wicked people, and no one can speak in their defence or condemn you for destroying them. No one can question what you have done or challenge your judgement. 
When they heard this, they were amazed; and they left him and went away. 
But if you do not surrender, then this city will be handed over to the Babylonians, who will burn it down, and you will not escape from them.” 
Jacob said, “I have seen God face to face, and I am still alive”; so he named the place Peniel.  
Philip said to him, “Lord, show us the Father; that is all we need.” 
Christ is like a single body, which has many parts; it is still one body, even though it is made up of different parts. 
But violent thunder gave warning of the punishment that was coming on those sinners. They suffered a well-deserved punishment for their great wickedness. No nation had ever hated strangers so bitterly. 
The LORD was angry with the Israelites and banished them from his sight, leaving only the kingdom of Judah. 
to give Aaron and his sons the following regulations for sin offerings. The animal for a sin offering shall be killed on the north side of the altar, where the animals for the burnt offerings are killed. This is a very holy offering. 
All that wicked people want is to find evil things to do, but the righteous stand firm. 
They answered, 
One of Jesus' disciples, Judas Iscariot — the one who was going to betray him — said, 
“Where is he?” the king asked. : “At the home of Machir son of Ammiel in Lodebar,” Ziba answered. 
The world of the dead lies open to God; : no covering shields it from his sight. 
Take good care of any animals you own. If they make money for you, keep them. 
Don't listen to Hezekiah. The emperor of Assyria commands you to come out of the city and surrender. You will all be allowed to eat grapes from your own vines, and figs from your own trees, and to drink water from your own wells — 
God answered, “The people of Israel and Judah are guilty of terrible sins. They have committed murder all over the land and have filled Jerusalem with crime. They say that I, the LORD, have abandoned their country and that I don't see them. 
From there it went to the Springs of Nephtoah and out to the cities near Mount Ephron. There it turned towards Baalah (or Kiriath Jearim), 
The LORD kept his promise and gave Solomon wisdom. There was peace between Hiram and Solomon, and they made a treaty with each other. 
If you serve me faithfully as your father David did, obeying my laws and doing everything I have commanded you, 
“I will bring my fist down on your robberies and murders. 
We found some believers there who asked us to stay with them a week. And so we came to Rome. 
and everyone here will see that the LORD does not need swords or spears to save his people. He is victorious in battle, and he will put all of you in our power.” 
They used fir trees from Mount Hermon for timber : And a cedar from Lebanon for your mast. 
You have shown me the paths that lead to life, : and your presence will fill me with joy.’ 
Once again I will rebuild you. Once again you will take up your tambourines and dance joyfully. 
After the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his clothes and divided them into four parts, one part for each soldier. They also took the robe, which was made of one piece of woven cloth without any seams in it. 
Wickedness does not give security, but righteous people stand firm. 
and said, “Go into the Jordan ahead of the Covenant Box of the LORD your God. Each one of you take a stone on your shoulder, one for each of the tribes of Israel. 
What will you do when God punishes you? What will you do when he brings disaster on you from a distant country? Where will you run to find help? Where will you hide your wealth? 
She became pregnant again and bore another son and named him Onan. 
Early in the morning of the fifth day he started to leave, but the woman's father said, “Eat something, please. Wait until later in the day.” So the two men ate together. 
They will teach your people to obey your Law; : They will offer sacrifices on your altar. 
The cities of Syria will be deserted for ever. They will be a pasture for sheep and cattle, and no one will drive them away. 
As the people stood there, King Solomon turned to face them, and he asked God's blessing on them. 
But the midwives feared God and so did not obey the king; instead, they let the boys live. 
At that time the disciples came to Jesus, asking, “Who is the greatest in the Kingdom of heaven?” 
You are powerless in spite of the advice you get. : Let your astrologers come forward and save you — : those people who study the stars, : who map out the zones of the heavens : and tell you from month to month : what is going to happen to you. 
Jehoiada put the priests and Levites in charge of the work of the Temple. They were to carry out the duties assigned to them by King David and to burn the sacrifices offered to the LORD in accordance with the Law of Moses. They were also in charge of the music and the celebrations. 
We struggle and work hard, because we have placed our hope in the living God, who is the Saviour of all and especially of those who believe. 
These are the Edomites, the inhabitants of the Philistine cities, and the stupid Samaritans. 
It took the people thirty days to finish looting the camp of the Assyrians. Judith was given Holofernes' tent, all his silver, his bowls, his couches, and all his furniture. She took them and loaded as much as she could on her mule; then she brought her wagons and loaded them too. 
you may be sure that the LORD your God will no longer drive these nations out as you advance. Rather, they will be as dangerous for you as a trap or a pit and as painful as a whip on your back or thorns in your eyes. And this will last until none of you are left in this good land which the LORD your God has given you. 
Just do as I do; I try to please everyone in all that I do, not thinking of my own good, but of the good of all, so that they might be saved.
God gave the Law through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. 
to give Aaron and his sons and all the people of Israel the following regulations. When any Israelite or any foreigner living in Israel presents a burnt offering, whether in fulfilment of a vow or as a freewill offering, the animal must not have any defects. 
In the territory of Reuben, east of the River Jordan beyond Jericho: Bezer on the plateau, Jahzah, 
and with their swords they will kill those who live in her towns on the mainland. Then Tyre will know that I am the LORD.” 
East of the Jordan, on the desert plateau east of Jericho, they chose Bezer in the territory of Reuben; Ramoth in Gilead, in the territory of Gad; and Golan in Bashan, in the territory of Manasseh. 
When Jesus and his disciples came to Capernaum, the collectors of the temple tax came to Peter and asked, “Does your teacher pay the temple tax?” 
It will take the Israelites seven months to bury all the corpses and make the land clean again. 
The Lord answered him, “You hypocrites! Any one of you would untie your ox or your donkey from the stall and take it out to give it water on the Sabbath.  
They forced the poor to cry out to God, : and he heard their calls for help. 
You, Jerusalem, are sitting high above the valleys, like a rock rising above the plain. But I will fight against you. You say that no one can attack you or break through your defences. 
The priests must not eat any bird or animal that dies a natural death or is killed by another animal.”
“Listen to us, sir. We look upon you as a mighty leader; bury your wife in the best grave that we have. Any of us would be glad to give you a grave, so that you can bury her.” 
We honour old age, but not just because a person has lived a long time. 
I am safe from all dangers; : in the assembly of his people I praise the LORD.
They stayed in their tents and grumbled : and would not listen to the LORD. 
May our sons in their youth : be like plants that grow up strong. : May our daughters be like stately pillars : which adorn the corners of a palace. 
The people of East Manasseh settled in the territory of Bashan as far north as Baal Hermon, Senir, and Mount Hermon, and their population increased greatly. 
Praise the LORD! : The Israelites were determined to fight; : the people gladly volunteered. 
You will have to work hard and sweat to make the soil produce anything, until you go back to the soil from which you were formed. You were made from soil, and you will become soil again.” 
“In order that people will praise my name, : I am holding my anger in check; : I am keeping it back and will not destroy you. 
But when they did not find them, they dragged Jason and some other believers before the city authorities and shouted, “These men have caused trouble everywhere! Now they have come to our city, 
They are the ones who speak evil of that good name which has been given to you. 
You see me now, but never again. : If you look for me, I'll be gone. 
Do horses gallop on rocks? Does anyone plough the sea with oxen? Yet you have turned justice into poison, and right into wrong. 
In the first month of the year after Hezekiah became king, he re-opened the gates of the Temple and had them repaired. 
When the men there asked about his wife, he said that she was his sister. He would not admit that she was his wife, because he was afraid that the men there would kill him to get Rebecca, who was very beautiful. 
How I hope that I shall be faithful : in keeping your instructions! 
When you are at war in your land, defending yourselves against an enemy who has attacked you, sound the signal for battle on these trumpets. I, the LORD your God, will help you and save you from your enemies. 
But you are the people he rescued from Egypt, that blazing furnace. He brought you out to make you his own people, as you are today. 
On the seventh day of the fifth month of the nineteenth year of King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia, Nebuzaradan, adviser to the king and commander of his army, entered Jerusalem. 
They also went to offer a sacrifice of a pair of doves or two young pigeons, as required by the law of the Lord. 
Moses continued speaking to the people of Israel, 
After he had sent them across, he also sent across all that he owned, 
Micah had four sons: Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz. 
Out of his mouth came a sharp sword, with which he will defeat the nations. He will rule over them with a rod of iron, and he will trample out the wine in the winepress of the furious anger of the Almighty God. 
They were all crying as they hugged him and kissed him goodbye. 
The whole Israelite community left the desert of Sin, moving from one place to another at the command of the LORD. They made camp at Rephidim, but there was no water there to drink. 
The land will be divided among them in seven parts; Judah will stay in its territory in the south, and Joseph in its territory in the north. 
And on the fifteenth day of the eighth month, the day that he himself had set, he went to Bethel and offered a sacrifice on the altar in celebration of the festival he had instituted for the people of Israel.
Jesus looked at them and asked, “What, then, does this scripture mean? :   ‘The stone which the builders rejected as worthless :   turned out to be the most important of all.’ 
Jesus said to them, “I have done many good deeds in your presence which the Father gave me to do; for which one of these do you want to stone me?” 
Wisdom is a fountain of life to the wise, but trying to educate stupid people is a waste of time. 
“God is wise and powerful! : Praise him for ever and ever. 
They went to war against the Hagrite tribes of Jetur, Naphish, and Nodab. 
“After we had passed through Moab, the LORD said to us, ‘Now, start out and cross the River Arnon. I am placing in your power Sihon, the Amorite king of Heshbon, along with his land. Attack him, and begin occupying his land. 
Or do we want to make the Lord jealous? Do we think that we are stronger than he? 
brought out the sacred pillar that was there, and burnt it. 
“Then, Israel, you will know that I am the LORD your God. : I live on Zion, my sacred hill. : Jerusalem will be a sacred city; : foreigners will never conquer it again. 
She is unaware that a foot may crush them : or a wild animal break them. 
Israel will never again depend on them for help. Egypt's fate will remind Israel how wrong it was to rely on them. Then Israel will know that I am the Sovereign LORD.” 
Izhar had three sons: Korah, Nepheg, and Zichri. 
“Whoever welcomes in my name one of these children, welcomes me; and whoever welcomes me, welcomes not only me but also the one who sent me.” 
You put on your perfumes and ointments and go to worship the god Molech. To find gods to worship, you send messengers far and wide, even to the world of the dead. 
In the Jordan Valley it included Beth Haram, Bethnimrah, Sukkoth, and Zaphon, the rest of the kingdom of King Sihon of Heshbon. Their western border was the River Jordan as far north as Lake Galilee. 
That ruler will have a firm agreement with many people for seven years, and when half this time is past, he will put an end to sacrifices and offerings. The Awful Horror will be placed on the highest point of the Temple and will remain there until the one who put it there meets the end which God has prepared for him.”
Do you know when they will crouch down : and bring their young into the world? 
Ozem, and David. 
The LORD Almighty said to the people of Jerusalem, “Do not listen to what the prophets say; they are filling you with false hopes. They tell you what they have imagined and not what I have said. 
For this reason I fall on my knees before the Father, 
Look at me, LORD, and hear my prayer, as I pray day and night for your servants, the people of Israel. I confess that we, the people of Israel, have sinned. My ancestors and I have sinned. 
Abner said to Joab, “Let's get some of the young men from each side to fight an armed contest.” : “All right,” Joab answered. 
When Ahab saw Elijah, he said, “Have you caught up with me, my enemy?” : “Yes, I have,” Elijah answered. “You have devoted yourself completely to doing what is wrong in the LORD's sight. 
How long will our land be dry, : and the grass in every field be withered? : Animals and birds are dying : because of the wickedness of our people, : people who say, ‘God doesn't see what we are doing.’ ” 
He shall sacrifice the ram to the LORD as a fellowship offering, and offer it with the basket of bread; he shall also present the offerings of corn and wine. 
The women who had followed Jesus from Galilee went with Joseph and saw the tomb and how Jesus' body was placed in it. 
Or would you give him a scorpion when he asks for an egg?  
The LORD gave the following regulations to Moses. 
Abraham made Isaac carry the wood for the sacrifice, and he himself carried a knife and live coals for starting the fire. As they walked along together, 
Your life here on earth has been full of luxury and pleasure. You have made yourselves fat for the day of slaughter. 
I am tired of living. : Listen to my bitter complaint. 
Now for a short time, O LORD our God, you have been gracious to us and have let some of us escape from slavery and live in safety in this holy place. You have freed us from slavery and given us new life. 
Put on the yoke, and be willing to learn. The opportunity is always near. 
because I have given to them as their possession the tithe which the Israelites present to me as a special contribution. That is why I told them that they would have no permanent property in Israel.” 
A church leader must be without fault; he must have only one wife, be sober, self-controlled, and orderly; he must welcome strangers in his home; he must be able to teach; 
He had also said, “The God of my father helped me and saved me from being killed by the king of Egypt”; so he had named the other son Eliezer.) 
You must do this, because you know that the time has come for you to wake up from your sleep. For the moment when we will be saved is closer now than it was when we first believed. 
The angel also said to me, “The waters you saw, on which the prostitute is sitting, are nations, peoples, races, and languages. 
You Philippians know very well that when I left Macedonia in the early days of preaching the Good News, you were the only church to help me; you were the only ones who shared my profits and losses. 
Offer with them all the other offerings required for the first day. 
They served as judges for the people on a permanent basis, bringing the difficult cases to Moses but deciding the smaller disputes themselves. 
If you try to grow crops, the soil will not produce anything; you will be a homeless wanderer on the earth.” 
After exploring the land for forty days, the spies returned 
“Your elder sister is Samaria, in the north, with her villages. Your younger sister, with her villages, is Sodom, in the south. 
The descendants of Zophah were Suah, Harnepher, Shual, Beri, Imrah, 
So Abram moved his camp and settled near the sacred trees of Mamre at Hebron, and there he built an altar to the LORD.
Hannah made a solemn promise: “Almighty LORD, look at me, your servant! See my trouble and remember me! Don't forget me! If you give me a son, I promise that I will dedicate him to you for his whole life and that he will never have his hair cut.” 
They are like a dream that goes away in the morning; : when you rouse yourself, O Lord, they disappear. 
When Sanballat heard that we Jews had begun rebuilding the wall, he was furious and began to ridicule us. 
Jerusalem is a city restored : in beautiful order and harmony. 
“When the ruling prince wants to make a voluntary offering to the LORD, either an offering to be burnt whole or a fellowship offering, the east gate to the inner courtyard will be opened for him. He is to make the offering in the same way as he does on the Sabbath, and the gate is to be closed after he goes out again.” 
All this is done by God, who through Christ changed us from enemies into his friends and gave us the task of making others his friends also. 
None of them will have to teach their fellow-citizens : or say to their fellow-citizens, : ‘Know the Lord.’ : For they will all know me, : from the least to the greatest. 
They went on their way and found everything just as Jesus had told them. 
All the men in the city had been called together to go after them, and as they pursued Joshua, they kept getting farther away from the city. 
In the fifth year of Rehoboam's reign their disloyalty to the LORD was punished. King Shishak of Egypt attacked Jerusalem 
“You are my own dear son, the answer to my prayers. What shall I tell you? 
For all time to come this offering is to be made by every descendant of Aaron who is serving as High Priest. It shall be completely burnt as a sacrifice to the LORD. 
You blew on the sea and the water piled up high; : it stood up straight like a wall; : the deepest part of the sea became solid. 
As the scripture says: : “Who knows the mind of the Lord? : Who is able to give him advice?” : We, however, have the mind of Christ.
If people have escaped from the corrupting forces of the world through their knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, and then are again caught and conquered by them, such people are in a worse state at the end than they were at the beginning. 
The Lord gave Moses and Aaron the following regulations 
Meanwhile the LORD had said to Aaron, “Go into the desert to meet Moses.” So he went to meet him at the holy mountain; and when he met him, he kissed him. 
Go to Shiloh, the first place where I chose to be worshipped, and see what I did to it because of the sins of my people Israel. 
who plot against good people : and sentence the innocent to death. 
and he ruled in Hebron over Judah for seven and a half years. 
Some of it fell on rocky ground, where there was little soil. The seeds soon sprouted, because the soil wasn't deep.  
After saying goodbye to the people he went away to a hill to pray. 
When David heard of it, he gathered the Israelite troops, crossed the River Jordan, and marched to Helam, where the Syrians took up their position facing him. The fighting began, 
whether the penis runs with it or is stopped up by it. 
So everyone from the town went out to meet Jesus; and when they saw him, they begged him to leave their territory.
And so I tell you, Peter: you are a rock, and on this rock foundation I will build my church, and not even death will ever be able to overcome it.  
Jesus said to his disciples, “Things that make people fall into sin are bound to happen, but how terrible for the one who makes them happen!  
“The foreigners,” answered Peter. :   “Well, then,” replied Jesus, “that means that the citizens don't have to pay.  
David gave orders to Joab and the other officers, “Go through Israel, from one end of the country to the other, and count the people. I want to know how many there are.” 
Elisha asked for some meal, threw it into the pot, and said, “Pour out some more stew for them.” And then there was nothing wrong with it. 
The tribe of Asher did not drive out the people living in the cities of Acco, Sidon, Ahlab, Achzib, Helbah, Aphek, and Rehob. 
There in the desert they were jealous of Moses : and of Aaron, the LORD's holy servant. 
“But the Most High God does not live in houses built by human hands; as the prophet says
This is the one I was talking about when I said, ‘A man is coming after me, but he is greater than I am, because he existed before I was born.’ 
There is not a weak spot in his skin; : it is as hard and unyielding as iron. 
When the Lord had made all this, : he looked at the earth and filled it with good things. 
The trees in the woods will shout for joy : when the LORD comes to rule the earth. 
Don't think that the LORD is too weak to save you or too deaf to hear your call for help! 
The LORD says, “People of Babylonia, you plundered my nation. You are happy and glad, going about like a cow threshing corn or like a neighing horse, 
The total number of all the Levite males one month old or older that Moses enrolled by clans at the command of the LORD, was 22,000. 
I will strip her naked in front of her lovers, and no one will be able to save her from my power. 
In Egypt we used to eat all the fish we wanted, and it cost us nothing. Remember the cucumbers, the watermelons, the leeks, the onions, and the garlic we had? 
Hannah continued to pray to the LORD for a long time, and Eli watched her lips. 
Those other people show a deep interest in you, but their intentions are not good. All they want is to separate you from me, so that you will have the same interest in them as they have in you. 
The LORD says, “A day is coming when I will restore the kingdom of David, which is like a house fallen into ruins. I will repair its walls and restore it. I will rebuild it and make it as it was long ago. 
The heathen nations will not plunder them any more, and the wild animals will not kill and eat them. They will live in safety, and no one will terrify them. 
So he showed them, and the people of Ephraim and Manasseh killed everyone in the city, except this man and his family. 
So the people went all over Egypt looking for straw. 
Zion has paid for her sin; the LORD will not keep us in exile any longer. : But Edom, the LORD will punish you; he will expose your guilty deeds.
What an unhappy man I am! Why did my mother bring me into the world? I have to quarrel and argue with everyone in the land. I have not lent any money or borrowed any; yet everyone curses me. 
Another mysterious sight appeared in the sky. There was a huge red dragon with seven heads and ten horns and a crown on each of his heads. 
Then the three disciples saw Elijah and Moses talking with Jesus. 
In the meantime the people were waiting for Zechariah and wondering why he was spending such a long time in the Temple. 
But Jesus answered him, “Let it be so for now. For in this way we shall do all that God requires.” So John agreed. 
Human reason is not adequate for the task, and our philosophies tend to mislead us, 
“I have sinned,” Saul replied. “But at least show me respect in front of the leaders of my people and all Israel. Go back with me so that I can worship the LORD your God.” 
Remember how it was with you in the past. In those days, after God's light had shone on you, you suffered many things, yet were not defeated by the struggle. 
Praise him with cymbals. : Praise him with loud cymbals. 
“Do not tell yourselves that these peoples outnumber you and that you cannot drive them out. 
At once Jesus reached out and grabbed hold of him and said, “How little faith you have! Why did you doubt?” 
and together they went to the Temple, accompanied by the priests and the prophets and all the rest of the people, rich and poor alike. Before them all, the king read aloud the whole book of the covenant which had been found in the Temple. 
Human beings were made like God, so whoever murders one of them will be killed by someone else. 
A person who has a dreaded skin disease must wear torn clothes, leave his hair uncombed, cover the lower part of his face, and call out, “Unclean, unclean!” 
“This perfume could have been sold for a large amount and the money given to the poor!” 
Abigail bowed down to the ground and said, “I am his servant, ready to wash the feet of his servants.” 
Are you condemning the righteous God? : Do you think that he hates justice? 
but in order to call the community together, long blasts are to be sounded. 
Nothing is left of all we were proud of. : We sinned, and now we are doomed. 
He caused a stream to come out of the rock : and made water flow like a river. 
I am gripped by fear and trembling; : I am overcome with horror. 
The LORD said to me, “Tell the king and his mother to come down from their thrones, because their beautiful crowns have fallen from their heads.  
You must be careful to distinguish between what is ritually clean and unclean, between animals that may be eaten and those that may not.
Any Israelite or any foreigner living in the community who offers a burnt offering or any other sacrifice 
Gideon said, “They were my brothers, my own mother's sons. I solemnly swear that if you had not killed them, I would not kill you.” 
“I have no demon,” Jesus answered. “I honour my Father, but you dishonour me.  
But now, give the woman back to her husband. He is a prophet, and he will pray for you, so that you will not die. But if you do not give her back, I warn you that you are going to die, you and all your people.” 
as it is written in the law of the Lord: “Every firstborn male is to be dedicated to the Lord.” 
Three years later, however, two of Shimei's slaves ran away to the king of Gath, Achish son of Maacah. When Shimei heard that they were in Gath, 
The women were Mary Magdalene, Joanna, and Mary the mother of James; they and the other women with them told these things to the apostles. 
Some time after this the LORD told me 
When a man sins in any of these ways, he must repay whatever he got by dishonest means. On the day he is found guilty, he must repay the owner in full, plus an additional twenty per cent. 
(Barabbas had been put in prison for a riot that had taken place in the city, and for murder.) 
“So then, I, the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, will turn against you and destroy all Judah. 
Every high priest is chosen from his fellow-men and appointed to serve God on their behalf, to offer sacrifices and offerings for sins. 
The LORD said to Moses and Aaron, 
(It takes eleven days to travel from Mount Sinai to Kadesh Barnea by way of the hill country of Edom.) 
You have sown much corn, but have harvested very little. You have food to eat, but not enough to make you full. You have wine to drink, but not enough to get drunk on! You have clothing, but not enough to keep you warm. And a worker cannot earn enough to live on. 
Some were fools, suffering because of their sins : and because of their evil; 
Everything was counted and weighed, and a complete record was made at the same time. 
He blessed some, making them honoured and holy, keeping them near him. Others he cursed, humbling them and removing them from their positions. 
“My people chose kings, but they did it on their own. They appointed leaders, but without my approval. They took their silver and gold and made idols — for their own destruction. 
They will have to give up all they have worked for; : they will have no chance to enjoy their wealth, 
I felt the powerful presence of the LORD, and his Spirit took me and set me down in a valley where the ground was covered with bones. 
We will take to the priests in the Temple the dough made from the first corn harvested each year and our other offerings of wine, olive oil, and all kinds of fruit. : We will take to the Levites, who collect tithes in our farming villages, the tithes from the crops that grow on our land. 
So the Israelites started out the next morning and made camp near the city of Gibeah. 
‘Not one of you from this evil generation will enter the fertile land that I promised to give your ancestors. 
God is not like men, who lie; : He is not a human who changes his mind. : Whatever he promises, he does; : He speaks, and it is done. 
Abimelech was told that they had gathered there, 
The tank rested on the backs of twelve bronze bulls that faced outwards, three facing in each direction. 
even if the seas roar and rage, : and the hills are shaken by the violence. 
A few days later Samson went back to marry her. On the way he left the road to look at the lion he had killed, and he was surprised to find a swarm of bees and some honey inside the dead body. 
When Jesus came to the territory of Gadara on the other side of the lake, he was met by two men who came out of the burial caves there. These men had demons in them and were so fierce that no one dared travel on that road. 
Ishmael, whom Hagar, the Egyptian slave of Sarah, bore to Abraham, 
My chosen people will use your name as a curse. I, the Sovereign LORD, will put you to death. But I will give a new name to those who obey me. 
Only someone too stupid to find his way home would wear himself out with work. 
Listen to me! These prisoners are your brothers and sisters. Let them go, or the LORD will punish you in his anger.” 
“This is what you are to do to Aaron and his sons to dedicate them as priests in my service. Take one young bull and two rams without any defects. 
My sins, O God, are not hidden from you; : you know how foolish I have been. 
The LORD answered, “It is those who have sinned against me whose names I will remove from my book. 
He did what was pleasing to the LORD, just as his father had done; but unlike his father he did not sin by burning incense in the Temple. The people, however, went on sinning. 
Jesus answered them, “I will ask you just one question, and if you give me an answer, I will tell you what right I have to do these things.  
“The poor man died and was carried by the angels to sit beside Abraham at the feast in heaven. The rich man died and was buried,  
Jacob said, “Why did you cause me so much trouble by telling the man that you had another brother?” 
But we belong to the day, and we should be sober. We must wear faith and love as a breastplate, and our hope of salvation as a helmet. 
and speak evil of one another; they are hateful to God, insolent, proud, and boastful; they think of more ways to do evil; they disobey their parents; 
This is the message that the LORD revealed to the prophet Habakkuk. 
David said to him, “My son, I wanted to build a temple to honour the LORD my God. 
While Gideon's men were blowing their trumpets, the LORD made the enemy troops attack each other with their swords. They ran towards Zarethan as far as Beth Shittah, as far as the town of Abel Meholah near Tabbath. 
So in the 31st year of the reign of King Asa of Judah, Omri became king of Israel, and he ruled for twelve years. The first six years he ruled in Tirzah, 
But Pilate asked the crowd, “Which one of these two do you want me to set free for you?” : “Barabbas!” they answered. 
Then the Ethiopian slave arrived and said to the king, “I have good news for Your Majesty! Today the LORD has given you victory over all who rebelled against you!” 
He was humiliated, and justice was denied him. : No one will be able to tell about his descendants, : because his life on earth has come to an end.” 
Do not eat any of the new corn, whether raw, roasted, or baked into bread, until you have brought this offering to God. This regulation is to be observed by all your descendants for all time to come. 
Sarah, my master's wife, bore him a son when she was old, and my master has given everything he owns to him. 
Don't be jealous of violent people or decide to act as they do, 
But when the kindness and love of God our Saviour was revealed, 
After some days Felix came with his wife Drusilla, who was Jewish. He sent for Paul and listened to him as he talked about faith in Christ Jesus. 
But Ruth answered, “Don't ask me to leave you! Let me go with you. Wherever you go, I will go; wherever you live, I will live. Your people will be my people, and your God will be my God. 
Then he took the two stone tablets and put them in the Covenant Box. He put the poles in the rings of the box and put the lid on it. 
The husband shall be free of guilt, but the woman, if guilty, must suffer the consequences.
The people of Maroth wait anxiously for relief, because the LORD has brought disaster close to Jerusalem. 
Give orders for a fast; : call an assembly! : Gather the leaders : and all the people of Judah : into the Temple of the LORD your God : and cry out to him. 
Saul asked Michal, “Why have you tricked me like this and let my enemy escape?” : She answered, “He said he would kill me if I didn't help him to escape.” 
Job was speaking to you, not to me, : but I would never answer as you did. 
He had a cousin, Esther, whose Hebrew name was Hadassah; she was a beautiful young woman, and had a good figure. At the death of her parents, Mordecai had adopted her and brought her up as his own daughter. 
At the LORD's command a prophet from Judah went to Bethel and arrived there as Jeroboam stood at the altar to offer the sacrifice. 
Actually all of us were like them and lived according to our natural desires, doing whatever suited the wishes of our own bodies and minds. In our natural condition we, like everyone else, were destined to suffer God's anger. 
So Jehoshaphat continued to grow more and more powerful. Throughout Judah he built fortifications and cities, 
Listen then, Joshua, you who are the High Priest; and listen, you fellow-priests of his, you that are the sign of a good future: I will reveal my servant, who is called The Branch! 
Praise the Lord by making generous offerings to him; don't be stingy with the first of your crops. 
We get little rest, if any at all. When we sleep, it is as if we were awake, disturbed by our imaginations. If we dream that we are running from an enemy, 
“Go in through the narrow gate, because the gate to hell is wide and the road that leads to it is easy, and there are many who travel it.  
“Mortal man, sing a funeral song for Tyre, 
Just a few days ago you changed your minds and did what pleased me. All of you agreed to set your fellow-Israelites free, and you made a covenant in my presence, in the Temple where I am worshipped. 
You were determined to climb up to heaven and to place your throne above the highest stars. You thought you would sit like a king on that mountain in the north where the gods assemble. 
But some mean and worthless men who had gone with David said, “They didn't go with us, and so we won't give them any of the loot. They can take their wives and children and go away.” 
These fourteen are the descendants of Jacob by Rachel. 
These laws determine when something is unclean and when it is clean.
In the same way, all of us, whether Jews or Gentiles, whether slaves or free, have been baptized into the one body by the same Spirit, and we have all been given the one Spirit to drink. 
And so all the rest of the human race will come to me, : all the Gentiles whom I have called to be my own. 
All the people who saw it started grumbling, “This man has gone as a guest to the home of a sinner!” 
He had thirty sons who rode thirty donkeys. They had thirty cities in the land of Gilead, which are still called the villages of Jair. 
They chant a funeral song for you: : ‘Who can be compared to Tyre, : To Tyre now silent in the sea? 
“The Supreme God made your father Nebuchadnezzar a great king and gave him dignity and majesty. 
at the age of sixteen, and he ruled in Jerusalem for 52 years. His mother was Jecoliah from Jerusalem. 
Abram married Sarai, and Nahor married Milcah, the daughter of Haran, who was also the father of Iscah. 
return it to him each evening, so that he can have it to sleep in. Then he will be grateful, and the LORD your God will be pleased with you. 
“They have tricked us! One Israelite woman has disgraced Nebuchadnezzar's whole kingdom. Look in there! Holofernes is lying dead on the ground and his head is gone!” 
Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet. 
At once Arioch took Daniel into King Nebuchadnezzar's presence and told the king, “I have found one of the Jewish exiles, who can tell Your Majesty the meaning of your dream.” 
“But my people would not listen to me; : Israel would not obey me. 
to do them the favour of bringing Paul to Jerusalem, for they had made a plot to kill him on the way. 
Flutes and harps make fine music, but a pleasant voice is better than either. 
Let them all praise the name of the LORD! : He commanded, and they were created; 
Even if you defeat the whole Babylonian army, so that only wounded men are left, lying in their tents, those men would still get up and burn this city to the ground.” 
The LORD told Moses 
I thank God that I speak in strange tongues much more than any of you. 
They were responsible for the Tent, its inner cover, its outer cover, the curtain for the entrance, 
Then Saul made a sacred vow. “By the living LORD I promise that you will not be punished for doing this,” he told her. 
While they were eating, Jesus took a piece of bread, gave a prayer of thanks, broke it, and gave it to his disciples. “Take it,” he said, “this is my body.” 
and Moses went up the mountain to meet with God. : The LORD called to him from the mountain and told him to say to the Israelites, Jacob's descendants
It is not because you stand in awe of God : that he reprimands you and brings you to trial. 
Saul went at once with 3,000 of the best soldiers in Israel to the wilderness of Ziph to look for David, 
The people who live in the city of Samaria will be afraid and will mourn the loss of the gold bull at Bethaven. They and the priests who serve the idol will weep over it. They will wail when it is stripped of its golden splendour. 
See to it, then, that no one enslaves you by means of the worthless deceit of human wisdom, which comes from the teachings handed down by human beings and from the ruling spirits of the universe, and not from Christ. 
You might forget yourself while in the company of important people and make a fool of yourself with some foul word that comes to you naturally. Think how your parents would feel! You would curse the day you were born and wish you were dead! 
The first one looked like a lion, but had wings like an eagle. While I was watching, the wings were torn off. The beast was lifted up and made to stand upright. And then a human mind was given to it. 
Meonothai was the father of Ophrah. : Seraiah was the father of Joab, the founder of the Valley of Craftsmen, where all the people were skilled workmen. 
The LORD came down in a cloud, stood with him there, and pronounced his holy name, the LORD.  
I will plant my people on the land I gave them, : and they will not be pulled up again.” : The LORD your God has spoken.
The LORD said to his people, “Stand at the crossroads and look. Ask for the ancient paths and where the best road is. Walk on it, and you will live in peace.” : But they said, “No, we will not!” 
After the LORD's Covenant Box had been in Philistia for seven months, 
There are twelve entrances to the city of Jerusalem. Each of the four walls measures 2,250 metres and has three gates in it, each named after one of the tribes. 
The LORD told me 
Jehoram, Ahaziah, Joash, 
I talk about what my Father has shown me, but you do what your father has told you.” 
30 gold bowls for offerings
Of Zion it will be said : that all nations belong there : and that the Almighty will make her strong. 
Abram's wife Sarai had not borne him any children. But she had an Egyptian slave woman named Hagar, 
“ ‘Do not commit adultery. 
Everything must be done in a proper and orderly way.
Do not even harvest the corn that grows by itself without being sown, and do not gather the grapes from your unpruned vines; it is a year of complete rest for the land. 
“Obey all the laws that I have given you today. Then you will be able to cross the river and occupy the land that you are about to enter. 
None of us knows what is going to happen, and there is no one to tell us. 
So then, people will say, ‘I went to sleep and woke up refreshed.’ 
If in spite of these two miracles they still will not believe you, and if they refuse to listen to what you say, take some water from the Nile and pour it on the ground. The water will turn into blood.” 
Don't think that there is no truth in the scripture that says, “The spirit that God placed in us is filled with fierce desires.”  
So then, show love for those foreigners, because you were once foreigners in Egypt. 
What wonderful things he did there! : What amazing things at the Red Sea! 
Moses stayed there with the LORD forty days and nights, eating and drinking nothing. He wrote on the tablets the words of the covenant — the Ten Commandments. 
There was not even one man left among those whom Moses and Aaron had listed in the first census in the Sinai Desert. 
He made the projections at the top of the four corners, so that they formed one piece with the altar. He covered it all with bronze. 
When a righteous person offers a sacrifice and the fat drips down on the altar, a pleasant smell rises to the Most High. 
neither do I consider myself worthy to come to you in person. Just give the order, and my servant will get well. 
God said to Balaam, “Do not go with these men, and do not put a curse on the people of Israel, because they have my blessing.” 
At this time Joshua went and destroyed the race of giants called the Anakim who lived in the hill country — in Hebron, Debir, Anab, and in all the hill country of Judah and Israel. Joshua completely destroyed them and their cities. 
Ten Levites were assigned to work under them: Jehiel, Azaziah, Nahath, Asahel, Jerimoth, Jozabad, Eliel, Ismachiah, Mahath, and Benaiah. All this was done under the authority of King Hezekiah and Azariah the High Priest. 
and how very great is his power at work in us who believe. This power working in us is the same as the mighty strength 
but everyone else was evil in God's sight, and violence had spread everywhere. 
David said to the priest Abiathar son of Ahimelech, “Bring me the ephod,” and Abiathar brought it to him. 
Within the three days, on the twentieth day of the ninth month, all the men living in the territory of Judah and Benjamin came to Jerusalem and assembled in the temple square. It was raining hard, and because of the weather and the importance of the meeting everyone was trembling. 
King Asa removed his grandmother Maacah from her position as queen mother, because she had made an obscene idol of the fertility goddess Asherah. Asa cut down the idol, chopped it up, and burnt the pieces in the valley of the Kidron. 
I have the strength to face all conditions by the power that Christ gives me. 
and so he said to him, “Because you have asked for the wisdom to rule justly, instead of long life for yourself or riches or the death of your enemies, 
“When the LORD your God enlarges your territory, as he has promised, you may eat meat whenever you wish. 
You have broken your covenant with your servant : and thrown his crown in the mud. 
Holofernes ordered his guards to let Judith leave the camp. So for three days Judith lived in the camp, and each night she would go out to the valley near Bethulia and bathe at the spring. 
I will make you desolate for ever, and no one will live in your cities again. Then you will know that I am the LORD. 
Then he said to the servants, “Stay here with the donkey. The boy and I will go over there and worship, and then we will come back to you.” 
At night my bones all ache; : the pain that gnaws me never stops. 
Never before, and never since, has there been a day like it, when the LORD obeyed a human being. The LORD fought on Israel's side! 
On the north the border turned towards Hannathon, ending at the Valley of Iphtahel. 
According to his usual habit Paul went to the synagogue. There during three Sabbaths he held discussions with the people, quoting 
But this time Hannah did not go. She told her husband, “As soon as the child is weaned, I will take him to the house of the LORD, where he will stay all his life.” 
they will vanish like moth-eaten clothing! : But the deliverance I bring will last for ever; : my victory will endure for all time.” 
“No one patches up an old coat with a piece of new cloth, for the new patch will shrink and make an even bigger hole in the coat.  
and six kilogrammes of cassia (all weighed according to the official standard). Add four litres of olive oil, 
My voice was thin and weak, : And I moaned like a dove. : My eyes grew tired from looking to heaven. : Lord, rescue me from all this trouble. 
“Teacher,” answered Nathanael, “you are the Son of God! You are the King of Israel!” 
“Mortal man,” he said, “look towards the mountains of Israel and give them my message. 
Then King Solomon said, “Each of you claims that the living child is hers and that the dead child belongs to the other one.” 
You, LORD, will be king for ever and ever.” 
“Only prayer can drive this kind out,” answered Jesus; “nothing else can.” 
The same was true of Simon's partners, James and John, the sons of Zebedee. Jesus said to Simon, “Don't be afraid; from now on you will be catching people.” 
I will not join in their secret talks, : Nor will I take part in their meetings, : For they killed men in anger : And they crippled bulls for sport. 
the table and all its equipment, the lampstand and its equipment, the altar for burning incense, 
The curtain for the entrance of the enclosure was made of fine linen woven with blue, purple, and red wool and decorated with embroidery. It was nine metres long and two metres high, like the curtains of the enclosure. 
The whole group rose up and took Jesus before Pilate, 
At that time the Emperor Augustus ordered a census to be taken throughout the Roman Empire. 
Make two gold settings 
God's people were few in number, : strangers in the land of Canaan. 
Do everything possible on your part to live in peace with everybody. 
As he taught them, he said, “Watch out for the teachers of the Law, who like to walk around in their long robes and be greeted with respect in the market place,  
So David and his 600 men started out, and when they arrived at the brook of Besor, some of them stayed there. 
You are doomed! In your fury you humiliated and disgraced your neighbours; you made them stagger as though they were drunk. 
Suppose there are brothers or sisters who need clothes and don't have enough to eat. 
He put up an altar there and named it after El, the God of Israel.
So many objects were made that no one determined the total weight of the bronze used. 
with the music of stringed instruments : and with melody on the harp. 
Then he shall offer one of the doves or pigeons 
and in addition they offered the regular sacrifices to be burnt whole and those to be offered at the New Moon Festival and at all the other regular assemblies at which the LORD is worshipped, as well as all the offerings that were given to the LORD voluntarily. 
How wonderful are the things the LORD does! : All who are delighted with them want to understand them. 
Send flashes of lightning and scatter your enemies; : shoot your arrows and send them running. 
They will put on sackcloth and they will tremble all over. Their heads will be shaved, and they will all be disgraced. 
Once more David consulted the LORD, who answered, “Don't attack them from here, but go round and get ready to attack them from the other side, near the balsam trees. 
David was living in Ziklag, where he had gone to escape from King Saul. There he was joined by many experienced, reliable soldiers, 
Balaam uttered this prophecy: : “Who are these people gathering in the north? 
Obey me, and you will never have cause for embarrassment; : do as I say, and you will be safe from sin.” 
the LORD had said, “The city of Jerusalem laughs at you, Sennacherib, and despises you. 
you surrender to him your silver and gold, your women and the strongest of your children.” 
First, however, the land must be rid of its people, so that it can enjoy its complete rest, and they must pay the full penalty for having rejected my laws and my commands. 
and the export of chariots from Egypt. They supplied the Hittite and Syrian kings with horses and chariots, selling chariots for 600 pieces of silver each and horses for 150 each.
Now you arrogant ones who rule here in Jerusalem over this people, listen to what the LORD is saying. 
He put his hand into his bag and took out a stone, which he slung at Goliath. It hit him on the forehead and broke his skull, and Goliath fell face downwards on the ground. 
I will make the country a desolate waste, and the power they were so proud of will come to an end. The mountains of Israel will be so wild that no one will be able to travel through them. 
It is clear that Christ himself wrote this letter and sent it by us. It is written, not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God, and not on stone tablets but on human hearts. 
Do not carry any gold, silver, or copper money in your pockets;  
No cedar in God's garden could compare with it. : No fir tree ever had such branches, : And no plane tree such boughs. : No tree in God's own garden was so beautiful. 
At the flash of your speeding arrows : and the gleam of your shining spear, : the sun and the moon stood still. 
As Jesus sat near the temple treasury, he watched the people as they dropped in their money. Many rich men dropped in a lot of money; 
and were placed on a rounded section which was above the chain design. There were 200 pomegranates in two rows round each capital. 
Hear my prayer, LORD God Almighty. : Listen, O God of Jacob! 
All of you that plot to destroy others : will be destroyed by your own plots. : The LORD himself will make this happen; : you will suffer a miserable fate.
Judas, the traitor, knew where it was, because many times Jesus had met there with his disciples. 
for the Israelites to observe when they offer their sacrifices. : When anyone offers an animal sacrifice, it may be one of his cattle or one of his sheep or goats. 
The Lord commanded Moses 
He seized the dragon, that ancient serpent — that is, the Devil, or Satan — and chained him up for a thousand years. 
But what if our doing wrong serves to show up more clearly God's doing right? Can we say that God does wrong when he punishes us? (This would be the natural question to ask.) 
The nations of the world will praise the everlasting God by doing what he demands. : “At that time God will save all the people of Israel who have been faithful to him. He will bring them together to Jerusalem, and let them take possession of the land of Abraham, and there they will live securely for ever. All who love God with their heart and soul will rejoice, but all sinners and evil people will be wiped off the face of the earth. 
“I have heard the complaints of the Israelites. Tell them that at twilight they will have meat to eat, and in the morning they will have all the bread they want. Then they will know that I, the LORD, am their God.” 
It included all the cities of the plateau and the whole kingdom of the Amorite king Sihon, who had ruled at Heshbon. Moses defeated him, as well as the rulers of Midian: Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur, and Reba. All of them had ruled the land for King Sihon. 
When a rich person speaks, everyone is silent, and they praise him to the skies for what he says. But let a poor person speak, and everybody says, “Who is that?” They push him down if he so much as stumbles. 
It is like this. A man takes a mustard seed, the smallest seed in the world, and plants it in the ground.  
He offered sacrifices to the gods of the Syrians, who had defeated him. He said, “The Syrian gods helped the kings of Syria, so if I sacrifice to them, they may help me too.” This brought disaster on him and on his nation. 
but keep alive for yourselves all the girls and all the women who are virgins. 
Some will use gold or silver or precious stones in building on the foundation; others will use wood or grass or straw. 
He is near to those who call to him, : who call to him with sincerity. 
When Peter went to Jerusalem, those who were in favour of circumcising Gentiles criticized him, saying, 
Elioenai had seven sons: Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah, and Anani.
“Take that man out of the camp. Everyone who heard him curse shall put his hands on the man's head to testify that he is guilty, and then the whole community shall stone him to death. 
Do this every day for seven days. Then the altar will be completely holy, and anyone or anything that touches it will be harmed by the power of its holiness. 
It will be like this at the end of the age: the angels will go out and gather up the evil people from among the good  
Her children show their appreciation, and her husband praises her. 
We know that God is right when he judges the people who do such things as these. 
The LORD is like a strong tower, where the righteous can go and be safe. 
Solomon's and Hiram's workmen and men from the city of Byblos prepared the stones and the timber to build the Temple.
Amazed and confused, they kept asking each other, “What does this mean?” 
You are building God's city, Jerusalem, on a foundation of murder and injustice. 
But if you act like wild animals, hurting and harming each other, then watch out, or you will completely destroy one another. 
Throw a stone straight up in the air and it will come down on your head. Strike a blow, and you yourself will be wounded. 
Those who honour you will be glad when they see me, : because I trust in your promise. 
Here is an injustice I have seen in the world — an injustice caused by rulers. 
His left-hand is under my head, : and his right-hand caresses me. 
A young Hebrew was there with us, a slave of the captain of the guard. We told him our dreams, and he interpreted them for us. 
That same night the king sent for Moses and Aaron and said, “Get out, you and your Israelites! Leave my country; go and worship the LORD, as you asked. 
Now swear by him that you will treat my family as kindly as I have treated you, and give me some sign that I can trust you. 
I want you to make a vow in the name of the LORD, the God of heaven and earth, that you will not choose a wife for my son from the people here in Canaan. 
The leaders of Issachar came with Deborah; : yes, Issachar came and Barak too, : and they followed him into the valley. : But the tribe of Reuben was divided; : they could not decide whether to come. 
A curse is on all of you because the whole nation is cheating me. 
The king said to his officials, “Don't you realize that this day a great leader in Israel has died? 
The Lord will accept the offerings made by a righteous person and will not forget them. 
Or perhaps you despise his great kindness, tolerance, and patience. Surely you know that God is kind, because he is trying to lead you to repent. 
and on the mountains in the open country. I will make your enemies take away your wealth and your treasures because of all the sins you have committed throughout your land. 
Do not offer on this altar any forbidden incense, any animal offering, or any grain offering, and do not pour out any wine offering on it. 
Who was it that made this happen? : Who has determined the course of history? : I, the LORD, was there at the beginning, : and I, the LORD, will be there at the end. 
Soon after Jehoiakim son of Josiah became king of Judah, 
After they had all gathered to protest to Moses and Aaron, they turned towards the Tent and saw that the cloud was covering it and that the dazzling light of the LORD's presence had appeared. 
So we do not boast about the work that others have done beyond the limits God set for us. Instead, we hope that your faith may grow and that we may be able to do a much greater work among you, always within the limits that God has set. 
The stars fell down to the earth, like unripe figs falling from the tree when a strong wind shakes it. 
The prophet Elisha fell ill with a fatal disease, and as he lay dying King Jehoash of Israel went to visit him. “My father, my father!” he exclaimed as he wept. “You have been the mighty defender of Israel!” 
“Get a bow and some arrows,” Elisha ordered him. Jehoash got them, 
and their children will make good what they stole from the poor. 
Then he put them in prison for three days. 
A slip of the tongue is worse than a slip on the pavement; the wicked will go to ruin just as suddenly as a person slips and falls. 
Is that why you are plotting against me? Not one of you told me that my own son had made an alliance with David. No one is concerned about me or tells me that David, one of my own men, is at this moment looking for a chance to kill me, and that my son has encouraged him!” 
Yet, Sovereign LORD, you are the one who ordered me to buy the field in the presence of witnesses, even though the city is about to be captured by the Babylonians.” 
We put a bit into the mouth of a horse to make it obey us, and we are able to make it go where we want. 
Because the Lord corrects everyone he loves, : and punishes everyone he accepts as his child.” 
“Make a curtain of fine linen woven with blue, purple, and red wool. Embroider it with figures of winged creatures. 
Long ago the LORD made a road through the sea, : a path through the swirling waters. 
Insincere talk that hides what you are really thinking is like a fine glaze on a cheap clay pot. 
So David went to Baal Perazim and there he defeated the Philistines. He said, “The LORD has broken through my enemies like a flood.” And so that place is called Baal Perazim.  
How can you claim you have discovered wisdom? : God must answer Job, for you have failed. 
(People never hate their own bodies. Instead, they feed them and take care of them, just as Christ does the church; 
At once King Joram left Samaria and gathered all his troops. 
Then Hiram sent Solomon the following message: “I have received your message and I am ready to do what you ask. I will provide the cedars and the pine trees. 
and put them through the rings on each side of the box. 
A large crowd of people spread their cloaks on the road while others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road. 
So Saul and his three sons all died together and none of his descendants ever ruled. 
Holofernes was so charmed by her that he drank more wine than he had ever drunk at one time in his whole life.
He will even invade the Promised Land and kill tens of thousands, but the countries of Edom, Moab, and what is left of Ammon will escape. 
Sin must no longer rule in your mortal bodies, so that you obey the desires of your natural self. 
If I were you, I would turn to God : and present my case to him. 
For the Spirit that God has given us does not make us timid; instead, his Spirit fills us with power, love, and self-control. 
Lazy people stay at home; they say a lion might get them if they go outside. 
But I will see you, because I have done no wrong; : and when I awake, your presence will fill me with joy.
they were the ancestors of the people who live along the coast and on the islands. These are the descendants of Japheth, living in their different tribes and countries, each group speaking its own language. 
Now, go and look over the whole land, because I am going to give it all to you.” 
And so, my dear friends, if our conscience does not condemn us, we have courage in God's presence. 
across the sea to buy and sell the corn that grew in Egypt and to do business with all the nations. 
The Jewish authorities were greatly surprised and said, “How does this man know so much when he has never had any training?” 
His parents said this because they were afraid of the Jewish authorities, who had already agreed that anyone who said he believed that Jesus was the Messiah would be expelled from the synagogue. 
They don't guard the places where the walls have crumbled, nor do they rebuild the walls, and so Israel cannot be defended when war comes on the day of the LORD. 
O God, you have made me suffer all day long; : every morning you have punished me. 
But in the seventh year Jehoiada the priest sent for the officers in charge of the royal bodyguard and of the palace guards, and told them to come to the Temple, where he made them agree under oath to what he planned to do. He showed them King Ahaziah's son Joash 
Judah also saw that I divorced Israel and sent her away because she had turned from me and had become a prostitute. But Judah, Israel's unfaithful sister, was not afraid. She too became a prostitute 
I answered, “If I tell you the truth, you will put me to death, and if I give you advice, you won't pay any attention.” 
The king, however, gave orders that Absalom should not live in the palace. “I don't want to see him,” the king said. So Absalom lived in his own house and did not appear before the king. 
Paul and his companions sailed from Paphos and came to Perga, a city in Pamphylia, where John Mark left them and went back to Jerusalem. 
Then Adonijah's guests were afraid, and they all got up and left, each going his own way. 
Give us day by day the food we need.   
The Holy Spirit inspired David to say: :   ‘The Lord said to my Lord: :   Sit here on my right :   until I put your enemies under your feet.’ 
You destroy all liars : and despise violent, deceitful people. 
Jerusalem, wake up! : Rouse yourself and get up! : You have drunk the cup of punishment : that the LORD in his anger gave you to drink; : you drank it down, and it made you stagger. 
and Og, king of Bashan; : his love is eternal. 
and then he bought the hill of Samaria for 6,000 pieces of silver from a man named Shemer. Omri fortified the hill, built a town there, and named it Samaria, after Shemer, the former owner of the hill. 
Jesus answered, “The light will be among you a little longer. Continue on your way while you have the light, so that the darkness will not come upon you; for the one who walks in the dark does not know where he is going.  
Asa went out to fight him, and both sides took up their positions in the Valley of Zephathah near Mareshah. 
Then, if the great Lord is willing, he will be filled with understanding. He will pour out a stream of wise sayings, and give thanks to the Lord in prayer. 
Kedesh, Edrei, Enhazor, 
“You, Jeremiah, must proclaim everything I have said. You must tell these people, : ‘The LORD will roar from heaven : and thunder from the heights of heaven. : He will roar against his people; : he will shout like a man treading grapes. : Everyone on earth will hear him, 
When the Law of Moses was being read aloud to the people, they came to the passage that said that no Ammonite or Moabite was ever to be permitted to join God's people. 
“If you return safely,” Micaiah exclaimed, “then the LORD has not spoken through me!” And he added, “Listen, everyone, to what I have said!” 
Now please do what I ask. Let me prepare some food for you. You must eat so that you will be strong enough to travel.” 
Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life; whoever disobeys the Son will not have life, but will remain under God's punishment.
They sent word throughout Jerusalem and Judah for everyone to bring to the LORD the tax which Moses, God's servant, had first collected in the wilderness. 
The people of the northern tribes sent for him, and then they all went together to Rehoboam and said to him, 
Shobal, the founder of Kiriath Jearim, was the ancestor of the people of Haroeh, of half the inhabitants of Menuhoth, 
I am doing this because of your mother Rachel. To my great sorrow she died in the land of Canaan, not far from Ephrath, as I was returning from Mesopotamia. I buried her there beside the road to Ephrath.” (Ephrath is now known as Bethlehem.) 
Haman son of Hammedatha — the descendant of Agag and the enemy of the Jewish people — had cast lots (or “purim”, as they were called) to determine the day for destroying the Jews; he had planned to wipe them out. 
Do not neglect the spiritual gift that is in you, which was given to you when the prophets spoke and the elders laid their hands on you. 
“So I turned and went down the mountain, carrying the two stone tablets on which the covenant was written. Flames of fire were coming from the mountain. 
the kidneys and the fat on them, and the best part of the liver. 
and the LORD said, “Now hear what I have to say! When there are prophets among you, I reveal myself to them in visions and speak to them in dreams. 
Can you carry fire against your chest without burning your clothes? 
King Ahaziah joined King Joram of Israel in a war against King Hazael of Syria. The armies clashed at Ramoth in Gilead, and Joram was wounded in battle. 
Perhaps I am an amateur in speaking, but certainly not in knowledge; we have made this clear to you at all times and in all conditions. 
The first to speak in court always seems right until his opponent begins to question him. 
“When my people in their need look for water, : when their throats are dry with thirst, : then I, the LORD, will answer their prayer; : I, the God of Israel, will never abandon them. 
Be patient and wait for the LORD to act; : don't be worried about those who prosper : or those who succeed in their evil plans. 
Where now is the city : that was like a den of lions, : the place where young lions were fed, : where the lion and the lioness would go : and their cubs would be safe? 
Before he left, he called his ten servants and gave them each a gold coin and told them, ‘See what you can earn with this while I am gone.’  
The scripture says that you are ready to appear at the designated time, to cool God's anger before it breaks out in fury; that you “will bring parents and children together again,” and restore the tribes of Israel. 
When Esau looked round and saw the women and the children, he asked, “Who are these people with you?” : “These, sir, are the children whom God has been good enough to give me,” Jacob answered. 
Praise the LORD, all people on earth; : praise his glory and might. 
Zebul, the ruler of the city, became angry when he heard what Gaal had said. 
But you, LORD, are the true God, : you are the living God : and the eternal king. : When you are angry, the world trembles; : the nations cannot endure your anger. 
Anna ran to her son, threw her arms round him, and exclaimed, “Now that I have seen you alive, my child, I can die in peace!” And she wept for joy. 
and now you have him to lead you. As for me, I am old and grey, and my sons are with you. I have been your leader from my youth until now. 
God rises up and scatters his enemies. : Those who hate him run away in defeat. 
Everything else that Jehoahaz did and all his brave deeds are recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel. 
They made two gold settings and two gold rings and attached the two rings to the upper corners of the breastpiece. 
So the Jews could do what they wanted with their enemies. They attacked them with swords and slaughtered them. 
May the LORD reward you for what you have done. May you have a full reward from the LORD God of Israel, to whom you have come for protection!” 
Don't you see what they are doing in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem? 
The two men said to Lot, “If you have anyone else here — sons, daughters, sons-in-law, or any other relatives living in the city — get them out of here, 
You boast about capturing the town of Lodebar. You boast, “We were strong enough to take Karnaim.” 
I have told you this many times before, and now I repeat it with tears: there are many whose lives make them enemies of Christ's death on the cross. 
He gives hope to the poor and silences the wicked. 
But even then God was not pleased with most of them, and so their dead bodies were scattered over the desert. 
The arrogance of the people of Israel cries out against them. Their sins make them stumble and fall, and the people of Judah fall with them. 
Your fame will be great, and people will for ever say, ‘The LORD Almighty is God over Israel.’ And you will preserve my dynasty for all time. 
then I will punish them for their sins; : I will make them suffer for their wrongs. 
So Daniel went to the guard whom Ashpenaz had placed in charge of him and his three friends. 
You are doomed! You buy more houses and fields to add to those you already have. Soon there will be nowhere for anyone else to live, and you alone will live in the land. 
With the funeral honours of a donkey, : he will be dragged away : and thrown outside Jerusalem's gates.” 
They put him in a cage : and took him to the king of Babylonia. : They kept him under guard, : so that his roar would never be heard again : on the hills of Israel. 
And you must not call anyone here on earth ‘Father’, because you have only the one Father in heaven.  
In Egypt Joseph had two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim, by Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera, a priest in Heliopolis. 
Those who try to gain their own life will lose it; but those who lose their life for my sake will gain it. 
Then Jesus asked them, “Don't you understand this parable? How, then, will you ever understand any parable?  
Hannah said to him, “Excuse me, sir. Do you remember me? I am the woman you saw standing here, praying to the LORD. 
Rekem, Irpeel, Taralah, 
Then the king sent for Abram and asked him, “What have you done to me? Why didn't you tell me that she was your wife? 
The magicians tried to use their magic to make gnats appear, but they failed. There were gnats everywhere, 
Jacob had twelve sons: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun, 
Then David said, “LORD, God of Israel, I have heard that Saul is planning to come to Keilah and destroy it on account of me, your servant. 
As they came to the threshing place of Nacon, the oxen stumbled, and Uzzah reached out and took hold of the Covenant Box. 
And now you have taken your fathers' place, a new generation of sinful men ready to bring down the fierce anger of the LORD on Israel again. 
The men with David found an Egyptian out in the country and brought him to David. They gave him some food and water, 
The sayings of the wise are like the sharp sticks that shepherds use to guide sheep, and collected proverbs are as lasting as firmly driven nails. They have been given by God, the one Shepherd of us all. 
Because God gives him victory, : the king will rejoice. : Those who make promises in God's name will praise him, : but the mouths of liars will be shut.
I will bless the Israelites who belong to the tribe of Judah, and their descendants will possess my land of mountains. My chosen people, who serve me, will live there. 
“The people of Judah have done an evil thing. They have placed their idols, which I hate, in my Temple and have defiled it. 
Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, “As we go into battle, I will disguise myself, but you wear your royal garments.” So the king of Israel went into battle in disguise. 
By our baptism, then, we were buried with him and shared his death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from death by the glorious power of the Father, so also we might live a new life. 
He spread out the covering over the Tent and put the outer covering over it, just as the LORD had commanded. 
“When your people Israel are defeated by their enemies because they have sinned against you, and then when they turn to you and come to this Temple, humbly praying to you for forgiveness, 
Isaac's servants dug another well, and there was a quarrel about that one also, so he named it “Enmity”. 
In addition, he chose Daniel and two others to supervise the governors and to look after the king's interests. 
They have no understanding, : but I find pleasure in your law. 
Solomon offered sacrifices to the LORD on the altar which he had built in front of the Temple. 
“I agree,” Achish replied. “I consider you as loyal as an angel of God. But the other kings have said that you can't go with us into battle. 
in order to present the church to himself in all its beauty — pure and faultless, without spot or wrinkle or any other imperfection. 
A time is coming when the people of Egypt will be as timid as women. They will tremble in terror when they see that the LORD Almighty has stretched out his hand to punish them. 
They have no descendants, no survivors. 
No one can please God without faith, for whoever comes to God must have faith that God exists and rewards those who seek him. 
and now they know that everything you gave me comes from you.  
I will restore the people of Israel to their land. They will eat the food that grows on Mount Carmel and in the region of Bashan, and they will eat all they want of the crops that grow in the territories of Ephraim and Gilead. 
“Among the people of Israel there will be no more false visions or misleading prophecies. 
The doors were decorated with carved figures of winged creatures, palm trees, and flowers. The doors, the winged creatures, and the palm trees were covered with gold. 
The Son of Man will die as the Scriptures say he will, but how terrible for that man who betrays the Son of Man! It would have been better for that man if he had never been born!” 
There the people and the leaders of the Israelite tribes asked one another, “Who will lead the fight against the Ammonites? Whoever does will be the leader of everyone in Gilead.”
This will be the punishment that will fall on Egypt and on all the other nations if they do not celebrate the Festival of Shelters. 
Why are some days holier than others, even though the same sun rises on every day of the year? 
God will destroy those who slander others, those who prevent the punishment of criminals, and those who tell lies to keep honest men from getting justice. 
The man stood beside me there, and I heard the LORD speak to me out of the Temple
If you sin, that does no harm to God. : If you do wrong many times, does that affect him? 
to Moses, Aaron, and the whole community of Israel at Kadesh in the wilderness of Paran. They reported what they had seen and showed them the fruit they had brought. 
So if Satan's kingdom divides into groups, it cannot last, but will fall apart and come to an end. 
On that very day Herod and Pilate became friends; before this they had been enemies. 
Could anyone else have done what I did? : Who could have predicted all that would happen : from the very beginning to the end of time? 
The guards took the money and did what they were told to do. And so that is the report spread round by the Jews to this very day. 
to give this message to Rehoboam and to all the people of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin
Once upon a time the trees got together to choose a king for themselves. They said to the olive tree, ‘Be our king.’ 
Huge hailstones, each weighing as much as fifty kilogrammes, fell from the sky on people, who cursed God on account of the plague of hail, because it was such a terrible plague.
We are destroyed by your anger; : we are terrified by your fury. 
He sent locusts to eat their crops : and to destroy their fields. 
Human beings are like leaves on a spreading tree. New growth takes the place of the fallen leaves; while some of us die, others are being born. 
Balaam said to Balak, “Now I am going back to my own people, but before I go, I am warning you what the people of Israel will do to your people in the future.” 
This, however, was bound to happen so that what is written in their Law may come true: ‘They hated me for no reason at all.’ 
How could anything last, if you did not want it to? How could it endure, if you had not created it? 
The LORD will cause the emperor to hear a rumour that will make him go back to his own country, and the LORD will have him killed there.” 
I intend to build a great temple, because our God is greater than any other god. 
To honour the LORD is to hate evil; : I hate pride and arrogance, : evil ways and false words. 
Now they must stop worshipping other gods and remove the corpses of their kings. If they do, I will live among them for ever.” 
you will tell them about the time when Israel crossed the Jordan on dry ground. 
I know you are taking me off to my death, : to the fate in store for everyone. 
But even so, there is some good in you. You have removed all the symbols of the goddess Asherah which people worshipped, and you have tried to follow God's will.” 
Then Tobias called Raphael and said to him, 
Just then a cock crowed a second time, and Peter remembered how Jesus had said to him, “Before the cock crows twice, you will say three times that you do not know me.” And he broke down and cried.
The Assyrian officials said even worse things about the LORD God and Hezekiah, the LORD's servant. 
As Jesus was coming near Jericho, there was a blind man sitting by the road, begging. 
There they were seized with fear and anguish, : like a woman about to bear a child, 
But get up and stand on your feet. I have appeared to you to appoint you as my servant. You are to tell others what you have seen of me  today and what I will show you in the future.  
Next, David attacked King Hadadezer of the Syrian state of Zobah, near the territory of Hamath, because Hadadezer was trying to gain control of the territory by the upper Euphrates. 
then they would have swallowed us alive : in their furious anger against us; 
No, it is here with you. You know it and can quote it, so now obey it. 
Joab's men heard that Sheba was there, and so they went and besieged the city. They built ramps of earth against the outer wall and also began to dig under the wall to make it fall down. 
The road that sinners walk is smooth and paved, but it leads to the world of the dead. 
If God were human, I could answer him; : we could go to court to decide our quarrel. 
I am the one who made the earth : and created the human race to live there. : By my power I stretched out the heavens; : I control the sun, the moon, and the stars. 
the son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semein, the son of Josech, the son of Joda, 
But because my servant Caleb has a different attitude and has remained loyal to me, I will bring him into the land which he explored, and his descendants will possess the land 
In the Sinai Desert the LORD commanded Moses 
They are attacked by all who find them. Their enemies say, ‘They sinned against the LORD, and so what we have done is not wrong. Their ancestors trusted in the LORD, and they themselves should have remained faithful to him.’ 
The LORD says, “Can't you see what has happened to you? Before you started to rebuild the Temple, 
The LORD said to me, “I am punishing those Levites who, together with the rest of the people of Israel, deserted me and worshipped idols. 
For the LORD had commanded Moses to say to them, “You are a stubborn people. If I were to go with you even for a moment, I would completely destroy you. Now take off your jewellery, and I will decide what to do with you.” 
They put his weapons in one of their temples and hung his head in the temple of their god Dagon. 
As the LORD has been with Your Majesty, may he also be with Solomon, and make his reign even more prosperous than yours.” 
The possibilities of Wisdom are vaster than the ocean; her resources are more profound than the deepest waters beneath the earth. 
She went home and found her child lying on the bed; the demon had indeed gone out of her. 
But I am in pain and despair; : lift me up, O God, and save me! 
The seven angels who had the seven plagues came out of the temple, dressed in clean shining linen and with gold belts tied around their chests. 
God's Spirit joins himself to our spirits to declare that we are God's children. 
Your instructions are always just; : give me understanding, and I shall live. 
Obey the LORD and you will live a long life, content and safe from harm. 
Should I try force? Try force on God? : Should I take him to court? Could anyone make him go? 
Do not defile the land where you are living, because I am the LORD and I live among the people of Israel.”
But they don't turn to God, their Creator, : who gives them hope in their darkest hours. 
As snow vanishes in heat and drought, : so sinners vanish from the land of the living. 
But some Jews were jealous and gathered worthless loafers from the streets and formed a mob. They set the whole city in an uproar and attacked the home of a man called Jason, in an attempt to find Paul and Silas and bring them out to the people. 
Then Isaiah said to King Hezekiah, “This is a sign of what will happen. This year and next you will have only wild grain to eat, but the following year you will be able to sow your corn and harvest it, and plant vines and eat grapes. 
When I place my Temple there to be among them for ever, then the nations will know that I, the LORD, have chosen Israel to be my own people.”
As a result of what the apostles were doing, sick people were carried out into the streets and placed on beds and mats so that at least Peter's shadow might fall on some of them as he passed by. 
because Raguel thought, “Tobias will probably die too, and people will laugh and make fun of us.” 
Joseph continued to live in Egypt with his father's family; he was 110 years old when he died. 
“If even after all this you still do not obey me, I will increase your punishment seven times. 
You have come to the joyful gathering of God's firstborn, whose names are written in heaven. You have come to God, who is the judge of all people, and to the spirits of good people made perfect. 
When someone evil gives up sinning and does what is right and good, he has saved his life. 
The LORD spoke to me. 
Their territory extended to Mahanaim and included all of Bashan — the whole kingdom of Og, the king of Bashan, as well as all sixty of the villages of Jair in Bashan. 
That is when the light of the sun, the moon, and the stars will grow dim for you, and the rain clouds will never pass away. 
When you rebuked the waters, they fled; : they rushed away when they heard your shout of command. 
“If you return safely,” Micaiah exclaimed, “then the LORD has not spoken through me!” And he added, “Listen, everyone, to what I have said!” 
Then the angel said, “Almighty LORD, you have been angry with Jerusalem and the cities of Judah for seventy years now. How much longer will it be before you show them mercy?” 
And whoever welcomes in my name one such child as this, welcomes me. 
The king said to him, “I have had a dream, and no one can explain it. I have been told that you can interpret dreams.” 
I cling to you, : and your hand keeps me safe. 
but anything living in the water that does not have fins and scales must not be eaten. 
Now you will summon foreign nations; : at one time they did not know you, : but now they will come running to join you! : I, the LORD your God, the holy God of Israel, : will make all this happen; : I will give you honour and glory.” 
He always had the nature of God, : but he did not think that by force he should try to remain equal with God. 
You will make them burn with shame, and the LORD will reward you. 
And Melchizedek, who was king of Salem and also a priest of the Most High God, brought bread and wine to Abram, 
The Egyptians piled them up in great heaps, until the land stank with them. 
He wore a long robe decorated with symbols of the universe. In honour of our ancestors he wore four rows of engraved stones on his chest, and your own majesty was represented by the ornament on his turban. 
When Sisera learnt that Barak had gone up to Mount Tabor, 
like a trap. For it will come upon all people everywhere on earth.  
Arod, and Areli. 
Go ahead and be stupid! Go ahead and be blind! Get drunk without any wine! Stagger without drinking a drop! 
The LORD said to Samuel, “How long will you go on grieving over Saul? I have rejected him as king of Israel. But now get some olive oil and go to Bethlehem, to a man named Jesse, because I have chosen one of his sons to be king.” 
All Israel's leaders trust in their own strength and commit murder. 
Azariah the priest, accompanied by eighty strong and courageous priests, followed the king 
Don't you know that God's people will judge the world? Well, then, if you are to judge the world, aren't you capable of judging small matters? 
Be my secure shelter : and a strong fortress to protect me; : you are my refuge and defence. 
and kept it under siege until Zedekiah's eleventh year. 
Joseph's master was furious 
When you lack the confidence to rely on reason, you give in to the fears caused by ignorance. 
No one can ever exhaust the treasures of Wisdom. Use those treasures and you are God's friends; he approves of what you learn from her. 
Then Jacob went to his father and said, “Father!” : “Yes,” he answered. “Which of my sons are you?” 
But if you do get a stomach-ache from eating too much, go off and vomit and you will feel better. 
If you take someone's cloak as a pledge that he will pay you, you must give it back to him before the sun sets, 
He shall put the rest of the oil that is in the palm of his hand on the person's head. In this way he shall perform the ritual of purification. 
When they went down from the place of worship to the town, they made up a bed for Saul on the roof,  
But to keep me from being puffed up with pride because of the many wonderful things I saw, I was given a painful physical ailment, which acts as Satan's messenger to beat me and keep me from being proud. 
Then the kings of the earth, the rulers and the military chiefs, the rich and the powerful, and all other people, slave and free, hid themselves in caves and under rocks on the mountains. 
I will punish him with disease and bloodshed. Torrents of rain and hail, together with fire and sulphur, will pour down on him and his army and on the many nations that are on his side. 
It is true that through the sin of one man death began to rule because of that one man. But how much greater is the result of what was done by the one man, Jesus Christ! All who receive God's abundant grace and are freely put right with him will rule in life through Christ. 
One Sabbath Jesus went to eat a meal at the home of one of the leading Pharisees; and people were watching Jesus closely. 
The whole group was silent as they heard Barnabas and Paul report all the miracles and wonders that God had performed through them among the Gentiles. 
and you remember that ever since you were a child, you have known the Holy Scriptures, which are able to give you the wisdom that leads to salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. 
But after I have taken them away, I will have mercy on them; I will bring each nation back to its own land and to its own country. 
Be merciful to me, O God, : because of your constant love. : Because of your great mercy : wipe away my sins! 
Why are you lying? : Do you think your lies will benefit God? 
Once, while the Israelites were still in the wilderness, a man was found gathering firewood on the Sabbath. 
They were oppressed by their enemies : and were in complete subjection to them. 
The LORD said to him, “Who gives man his mouth? Who makes him deaf or dumb? Who gives him sight or makes him blind? It is I, the LORD. 
But some shepherds drove Jethro's daughters away. Then Moses went to their rescue and watered their animals for them. 
The voice of the LORD breaks the cedars, : even the cedars of Lebanon. 
So they left the tomb in a hurry, afraid and yet filled with joy, and ran to tell his disciples. 
Don't take it on yourself to repay a wrong. Trust the LORD and he will make it right. 
He stationed the men with drawn swords all round the front of the Temple, to protect the king. 
Brother Philemon, every time I pray, I mention you and give thanks to my God. 
And Jesus concluded, “This is how it is with those who pile up riches for themselves but are not rich in God's sight.” 
Rebecca's father. Milcah bore these eight sons to Nahor, Abraham's brother. 
On the wedding day Othniel urged her to ask her father for a field. She got down from her donkey, and Caleb asked her what she wanted. 
so they tried to arrest him. But they were afraid of the crowds, who considered Jesus to be a prophet.
But I will spread out a net and catch them like birds as they go by. I will punish them for the evil they have done. 
The next day we arrived at Sidon. Julius was kind to Paul and allowed him to go and see his friends, to be given what he needed. 
Only Moses and Aaron were more famous for their intense devotion to the Lord than Phinehas son of Eleazar. He brought about forgiveness for Israel's sin by standing firm in brave determination when everyone else was in revolt. 
They noticed that some of his disciples were eating their food with hands that were ritually unclean — that is, they had not washed them in the way the Pharisees said people should. 
Nor was man created for woman's sake, but woman was created for man's sake. 
As he was going there, the Spirit of God took control of him also, and he danced and shouted all the way to Naioth. 
The LORD, the holy God of Israel, : the one who shapes the future, says: : “You have no right to question me about my children : or to tell me what I ought to do! 
He said, “Because these people have rejected the quiet waters from the brook of Shiloah, and tremble before King Rezin and King Pekah, 
The second most important commandment is this: ‘Love your neighbour as you love yourself.’ There is no other commandment more important than these two.” 
“Yes,” Jesus said to them, “and I assure you that anyone who leaves home or wife or brothers or parents or children for the sake of the Kingdom of God  
You have made his weapons useless : and let him be defeated in battle. 
There he now waits until God puts his enemies as a footstool under his feet. 
I have seen the cruel suffering of my people in Egypt. I have heard their groans, and I have come down to set them free. Come now; I will send you to Egypt.’ 
So then, the gift of speaking in strange tongues is proof for unbelievers, not for believers, while the gift of proclaiming God's message is proof for believers, not for unbelievers. 
Turn to us, Almighty God! : Look down from heaven at us; : come and save your people! 
Joab's brother Abishai (their mother was Zeruiah) was the leader of “The Famous Thirty”. He fought with his spear against 300 men and killed them, and became famous among “The Thirty”.  
A fool speaks foolishly and thinks up evil things to do. What he does and what he says are an insult to the LORD, and he never feeds the hungry or gives thirsty people anything to drink. 
Pray that the LORD our God will show us the way we should go and what we should do.” 
Yes, I have seen the wicked buried and in their graves, but on the way back from the cemetery people praise them in the very city where they did their evil. It is useless. 
and if one of you wants to be first, he must be your slave —   
“I will sing a new song to my God. : O Lord, you are strong and glorious! : You have never been defeated. 
We wanted to return to you. I myself tried to go back more than once, but Satan would not let us. 
I have chosen to be obedient; : I have paid attention to your judgements. 
But the more I called to him, : the more he turned away from me. : My people sacrificed to Baal; : they burnt incense to idols. 
“The righteous will then answer him, ‘When, Lord, did we ever see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you a drink?  
At that, the king exclaimed, “Just as I thought! You are trying to gain time, because you see that I have made up my mind 
From there they turned back to Pi Hahiroth, east of Baal Zephon, and camped near Migdol. 
Then all the disciples left him and ran away. 
Whoever touches a corpse and does not purify himself remains unclean, because the water for purification has not been thrown over him. He defiles the LORD's Tent, and he will no longer be considered one of God's people. 
Wicked people are controlled by their conceit and arrogance, and this is sinful. 
On the day the 430 years ended, all the tribes of the LORD's people left Egypt. 
At Abinadab's house they brought out the Covenant Box and put it on a new cart. Uzzah and Ahio guided the cart, 
He has left someone to take vengeance on his enemies and to return the favours he owes his friends. 
Those who come to see me are not sincere; : they gather bad news about me : and then go out and tell it everywhere. 
As Jesus was starting on his way again, a man ran up, knelt before him, and asked him, “Good Teacher, what must I do to receive eternal life?” 
I have sent you to reap a harvest in a field where you did not work; others worked there, and you profit from their work.” 
I will paralyse your tongue so that you won't be able to warn these rebellious people. 
When buried, it is ugly and weak; when raised, it will be beautiful and strong. 
Jonathan went to him there and encouraged him with assurances of God's protection, 
for cutting jewels to be set; for carving wood; and for every other kind of artistic work. 
The LORD said to me, 
It was resolved that every Jewish family of every future generation in every province and every city should remember and observe the days of Purim for all time to come. 
and the LORD did as Moses asked. The flies left the king, his officials, and his people; not one fly remained. 
Come to the Lord, the living stone rejected by people as worthless but chosen by God as valuable. 
Joseph gave orders to fill his brothers' packs with corn, to put each man's money back in his sack, and to give them food for the journey. This was done. 
The sounds of violence will be heard no more; : Destruction will not shatter your country again. : I will protect and defend you like a wall; : You will praise me because I have saved you. 
Joab, whose mother was Zeruiah, was the commander of the army; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was in charge of the records; 
They answered, “We were met by a man who told us to come back and tell you that the LORD says to you, ‘Why are you sending messengers to consult Baalzebub, the god of Ekron? Is it because you think there is no god in Israel? You will not recover from your injuries; you will die!’ ” 
and they and the people of Jerusalem gathered in the new courtyard of the Temple. King Jehoshaphat went and stood before them 
The number of Levite cities in each tribe is to be determined according to the size of its territory.” 
Do not sacrifice a cow and its calf or a sheep and its lamb or a goat and its kid on the same day. 
Then the old prophet from Bethel said to him, “I, too, am a prophet just like you, and at the LORD's command an angel told me to take you home with me and offer you my hospitality.” But the old prophet was lying. 
they will never be hungry or thirsty. : Sun and desert heat will not hurt them, : for they will be led by one who loves them. : He will lead them to springs of water. 
And God's peace, which is far beyond human understanding, will keep your hearts and minds safe in union with Christ Jesus. 
I speak to you as sensible people; judge for yourselves what I say. 
Do not cut the hair on the sides of your head or trim your beard 
I am speaking now to you Gentiles: as long as I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I will take pride in my work. 
“You have a demon in you!” the crowd answered. “Who is trying to kill you?” 
he said, “Sirs, please do not pass by my home without stopping; I am here to serve you. 
Then Paul called one of the officers and said to him, “Take this young man to the commander; he has something to tell him.” 
He wasn't like the teachers of the Law; instead, he taught with authority.
Instead, we should write a letter telling them not to eat any food that is ritually unclean because it has been offered to idols; to keep themselves from sexual immorality; and not to eat any animal that has been strangled, or any blood. 
Do not be afraid — you will not be disgraced again; : you will not be humiliated. : You will forget your unfaithfulness as a young wife, : and your desperate loneliness as a widow. 
Then Raguel called his daughter. When she came in, he took her by the hand and gave her to Tobias with his blessing, “Take her to be your wife according to the teachings in the Law of Moses. Take her safely with you to your father's house. May the God of heaven give you a happy life together.” 
Hiram had sent Solomon more than four tonnes of gold. 
Touch him once and you'll never try it again; : you'll never forget the fight! 
The LORD said to her, : “Two nations are within you; : You will give birth to two rival peoples. : One will be stronger than the other; : The older will serve the younger.” 
The woman gave birth to a son and named him Samson. The child grew and the LORD blessed him. 
but each of them had four faces and four wings. 
The servant told Isaac everything he had done. 
This is how it is to be done. All who have lent money to a fellow-Israelite are to cancel the debt; they must not try to collect the money; the LORD himself has declared the debt cancelled. 
Here I am at the well where the young women of the city will be coming to get water. 
People of Heshbon, cry out! Ai is destroyed! Women of Rabbah, go into mourning! Put on sackcloth and mourn. Run about in confusion. Your god Molech will be taken into exile, together with his priests and princes. 
Obey my laws, because I am the LORD and I make you holy.” 
It was at this time that there was serious trouble in Ephesus because of the Way of the Lord. 
Nothing matters; : innocent or guilty, God will destroy us. 
How long is the lazy man going to lie in bed? When is he ever going to get up? 
I said to all the people of Judah and of Jerusalem, 
Then he gave them back to his mother. She took 200 of the pieces of silver and gave them to a metalworker, who made an idol, carving it from wood and covering it with the silver. It was placed in Micah's house. 
At that Raguel got up, and with tears of joy in his eyes he kissed Tobias. 
I will turn him round, put hooks in his jaws, and drag him and all his troops away. His army, with its horses and uniformed riders, is enormous, and every soldier carries a shield and is armed with a sword. 
From then on, because of Joseph the LORD blessed the household of the Egyptian and everything that he had in his house and in his fields. 
Job's sons used to take it in turns to give a feast, to which all the others would come, and they always invited their three sisters to join them. 
I, the LORD, know of their arrogance. Their boasts amount to nothing, and the things they do will not last. 
Jesus answered them, “Now let me ask you a question. Tell me,  
Answer me now, LORD! : I have lost all hope. : Don't hide yourself from me, : or I will be among those who go down to the world of the dead. 
John the Baptist came, and he fasted and drank no wine, and you said, ‘He has a demon in him!’  
Such people worship the most disgusting animals, including even the least intelligent ones. 
He worshipped Astarte the goddess of Sidon, and Molech the disgusting god of Ammon. 
And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or fields for my sake, will receive a hundred times more and will be given eternal life.  
Such a person has no equal, because the fear of the Lord is the most important thing in the world. 
Only admit that you are guilty and that you have rebelled against the LORD, your God. Confess that under every green tree you have given your love to foreign gods and that you have not obeyed my commands. I, the LORD, have spoken. 
Be happy and glad, for a great reward is kept for you in heaven. This is how the prophets who lived before you were persecuted. 
That night I washed, so as to purify myself, and went out into my courtyard to sleep by the wall. It was a hot night, and I did not pull the cover up over my head. 
but he executed the chief baker. It all happened just as Joseph had said. 
Do not offer as a food offering any animal obtained from a foreigner. Such animals are considered defective and are not acceptable. 
The kings of Spain and of the islands will offer him gifts; : the kings of Sheba and Seba will bring him offerings. 
And I will always guide you and satisfy you with good things. I will keep you strong and well. You will be like a garden that has plenty of water, like a spring of water that never runs dry. 
“On Zion, my sacred hill,” he says, : “I have installed my king.” 
They answered, “We can't do that until all the flocks are here and the stone has been rolled back; then we will water the flocks.” 
If he is poor and cannot afford any more, he shall bring for his purification only one male lamb as his repayment offering, a special gift to the LORD for the priest. He shall bring only one kilogramme of flour mixed with olive oil for a grain offering and a third of a litre of olive oil. 
God is my saviour; : I will trust him and not be afraid. : The LORD gives me power and strength; : he is my saviour. 
Then Jethro brought an offering to be burnt whole and other sacrifices to be offered to God; and Aaron and all the leaders of Israel went with him to eat the sacred meal as an act of worship. 
I praise you, LORD, because you heard me, : because you have given me victory. 
The LORD gave Moses 
He then brought Zabdi's family forward, one by one, and Achan, the son of Carmi and grandson of Zabdi, was picked out. 
Then Cain said to his brother Abel, “Let's go out in the fields.” When they were out in the fields, Cain turned on his brother and killed him. 
“So when you give something to a needy person, do not make a big show of it, as the hypocrites do in the houses of worship and on the streets. They do it so that people will praise them. I assure you, they have already been paid in full.  
“Count seven weeks from the time that you begin to harvest the corn, 
So when you make a promise to God, keep it as quickly as possible. He has no use for a fool. Do what you promise to do. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “the people who are living in the ruined cities of the land of Israel are saying: ‘Abraham was only one man, and he was given the whole land. There are many of us, so now the land is ours.’ 
The Philistine armies would come and fight, but in every battle David was more successful than any of Saul's other officers. As a result David became very famous.
Melchizedek was not descended from Levi, but he collected a tenth from Abraham and blessed him, the man who received God's promises. 
LORD, I have given up my pride : and turned away from my arrogance. : I am not concerned with great matters : or with subjects too difficult for me. 
He sees all that every human being does; : there is no way to hide from his sight. 
I will give the order, and they will return to this city. They will attack it, capture it, and burn it down. I will make the towns of Judah like a desert where no one lives. I, the LORD, have spoken.”
Jesus and his disciples sailed on over to the territory of Gerasa, which is across the lake from Galilee. 
Whenever all the flocks came together there, the shepherds would roll the stone back and water them. Then they would put the stone back in place. 
Your friend is gone. You can no more get him back than you can get a bird to come back to your hand once you let it go. 
long ago you created the earth, : and with your own hands you made the heavens. 
“Then I gave them laws that are not good and commands that do not bring life. 
and brought him safely through all his troubles. When Joseph appeared before the king of Egypt, God gave him a pleasing manner and wisdom, and the king made Joseph governor over the country and the royal household. 
He flew swiftly on a winged creature; : he travelled on the wings of the wind. 
They answered the king again, “If Your Majesty will only tell us what the dream was, we will explain it.” 
“Do not hitch an ox and a donkey together for ploughing. 
So let's separate. Choose any part of the land you want. You go one way, and I'll go the other.” 
the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalaleel, the son of Kenan, 
The LORD said to Moses, “How much longer will these people reject me? How much longer will they refuse to trust in me, even though I have performed so many miracles among them? 
Powerful people attack me unjustly, : but I respect your law. 
The wind howls at them as they run, : frightening them with destructive power.
From there we sailed on and arrived in the city of Rhegium. The next day a wind began to blow from the south, and in two days we came to the town of Puteoli. 
Because of our love for you we were ready to share with you not only the Good News from God but even our own lives. You were so dear to us! 
If you claim that he said something that he never said, he will reprimand you and show that you are a liar.” 
When they heard Paul speak about a raising from death, some of them made fun of him, but others said, “We want to hear you speak about this again.” 
So David took the spear and the water jar from just beside Saul's head, and he and Abishai left. No one saw it or knew what had happened or even woke up — they were all sound asleep, because the LORD had sent a heavy sleep on them all. 
someone fortunate enough to have a real friend, : a person that people are happy to listen to, 
the person shall shave the head except the area round the sore. The priest shall then isolate him for another seven days. 
Do not allow yourselves to be condemned by anyone who claims to be superior because of special visions and who insists on false humility and the worship of angels. For no reason at all, such people are all puffed up by their human way of thinking 
The princess is in the palace — how beautiful she is! : Her gown is made of gold thread. 
They were hungry and thirsty : and had given up all hope. 
Promise me that you will save my father and mother, my brothers and sisters, and all their families! Don't let us be killed!” 
Moses said, “The LORD has commanded us to save some manna, to be kept for our descendants, so that they can see the food which he gave us to eat in the desert when he brought us out of Egypt.” 
One day when Jesus was praying alone, the disciples came to him. “Who do the crowds say I am?” he asked them. 
The weapons which their riders carry : rattle and flash in the sun. 
But no one talked about him openly, because they were afraid of the Jewish authorities. 
But he imitated the sin of King Jeroboam, who led Israel into the sin of worshipping the gold bull calves he set up in Bethel and in Dan. 
You will wear Wisdom like a splendid crown. 
The following children were born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon, 
After the assembly was over, Uzziah took Achior home with him, and gave a banquet there for the elders. All that night they prayed to the God of Israel for help.
So Jesus stopped and ordered the blind man to be brought to him. When he came near, Jesus asked him, 
Jesus said to them, “Come with me, and I will teach you to catch people.”  
By the time he is old enough to make his own decisions, people will be drinking milk and eating honey.  
Your word, O LORD, will last for ever; : it is eternal in heaven. 
Tell us what the future holds — : then we will know that you are gods! : Do something good or bring some disaster; : fill us with fear and awe! 
I will never be afraid to protect a friend, and I will never turn a friend away if he needs me. 
Josiah had four sons: Johanan, Jehoiakim, Zedekiah, and Joahaz. 
Choose some wise, understanding, and experienced men from each tribe, and I will put them in charge of you.’ 
When I open the graves where my people are buried and bring them out, they will know that I am the LORD. 
He attacked them fiercely and killed many of them. Then he went and stayed in the cave in the cliff at Etam. 
“Go,” Jesus told him, “your faith has made you well.” : At once he was able to see and followed Jesus on the road.
She kept his robe with her until Joseph's master came home. 
The seeds that fell in good soil stand for those who hear the message and retain it in a good and obedient heart, and they persist until they bear fruit. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “there were once two sisters. 
and present the following parts as a food offering to the LORD: all the fat on the internal organs, 
King Hiram of Tyre had always been a friend of David's, and when he heard that Solomon had succeeded his father David as king he sent ambassadors to him. 
I will make my people strong; : they will worship and obey me.” : The LORD has spoken.
On the day you present the offering of corn, also sacrifice as a burnt offering a one-year-old male lamb that has no defects. 
He built up a force of 1,400 chariots and 12,000 cavalry horses. Some of them he kept in Jerusalem, and the rest he stationed in various other cities. 
Then Jethro said, “You are not doing it the right way. 
Isaac said, “You see that I am old and may die soon. 
because it is ritually unclean, and if anyone eats it, I will not accept the offering. 
If a country divides itself into groups which fight each other, that country will fall apart.  
Are you determined to walk in the paths : that evil people have always followed? 
“If you please, sir, we came here once before to buy food. 
During the day I call to you, my God, : but you do not answer; : I call at night, : but get no rest. 
King Toi of Hamath heard that David had defeated all of Hadadezer's army. 
The LORD is all I have, and so I put my hope in him. 
“Do not deprive foreigners and orphans of their rights; and do not take a widow's garment as security for a loan. 
the lampstand of pure gold, its lamps, all its equipment, and the oil for the lamps; 
There Abner made Ishbosheth king of the territories of Gilead, Asher, Jezreel, Ephraim, and Benjamin, and indeed over all Israel. 
“Cut away the ram's fat, the fat tail, the fat covering the internal organs, the best part of the liver, the two kidneys with the fat on them, and the right thigh. 
Do not be afraid of them, for I will be with you to protect you. I, the LORD, have spoken!” 
and I pray that Christ will make his home in your hearts through faith. I pray that you may have your roots and foundation in love, 
O Jerusalem, let your very walls cry out to the Lord! : Let your tears flow like rivers night and day; : Wear yourself out with weeping and grief! 
I am going to stir up a group of strong nations in the north and make them attack Babylonia. They will line up in battle against the country and conquer it. They are skilful hunters, shooting arrows that never miss the mark. 
while the crowd of people outside prayed during the hour when the incense was burnt. 
King Solomon then sent for Adonijah and had him brought down from the altar. Adonijah went to the king and bowed low before him, and the king said to him, “You may go home.”
“The LORD will give your enemies victory over you. You will attack them from one direction, but you will run from them in all directions, and all the people on earth will be terrified when they see what happens to you. 
Jonathan was the father of Meribbaal, who was the father of Micah. 
When I was young, I lived in northern Israel. All the tribes in Israel were supposed to offer sacrifices in Jerusalem. It was the one city that God had chosen from among all the Israelite cities as the place where his Temple was to be built for his holy and eternal home. But my entire tribe of Naphtali rejected the city of Jerusalem and the kings descended from David. 
But I have stripped Esau's descendants completely and uncovered their hiding places, so that they can no longer hide. All the people of Edom are destroyed. Not one of them is left. 
She sprinkled ashes on her head, tore her robe, and with her face buried in her hands went away crying. 
I said, “I will mourn for the mountains : and weep for the pastures, : because they have dried up, : and no one travels through them. : The sound of livestock is no longer heard; : birds and wild animals have fled and gone.” 
Jesus was in the back of the boat, sleeping with his head on a pillow. The disciples woke him up and said, “Teacher, don't you care that we are about to die?” 
He also took along a very large number of camels, donkeys, and mules to carry the equipment, as well as many sheep, cattle, and goats for food. 
In the same way, I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over 99 respectable people who do not need to repent. 
But those who trust in the LORD for help : will find their strength renewed. : They will rise on wings like eagles; : they will run and not get weary; : they will walk and not grow weak.
Once more they tried to seize Jesus, but he slipped out of their hands. 
May they disappear like water draining away; : may they be crushed like weeds on a path. 
I will say to one of them, ‘Please, lower your jar and let me have a drink.’ If she says, ‘Drink, and I will also bring water for your camels,’ may she be the one that you have chosen for your servant Isaac. If this happens, I will know that you have kept your promise to my master.” 
There will be so few trees left that even a child will be able to count them. 
After this, Jesus appeared once more to his disciples at Lake Tiberias. This is how it happened. 
The neighbours were all filled with fear, and the news about these things spread through all the hill country of Judea. 
When I am ready to give up, : he knows what I should do. : In the path where I walk, : my enemies have hidden a trap for me. 
Instead, you yourselves wrong one another and rob one another, even your own brothers and sisters! 
Wine and women make sensible men do foolish things. A man who goes to prostitutes gets more and more careless, 
I gave orders for an investigation to be made, and it has indeed been found that from ancient times Jerusalem has revolted against royal authority and that it has been full of rebels and troublemakers. 
Solomon imported horses from Musri and from every other country. 
Samson told them, “So this is how you act! I swear that I won't stop until I pay you back!” 
The sun rose as Jacob was leaving Peniel, and he was limping because of his hip. 
“If someone steals a cow or a sheep and kills it or sells it, he must pay five cows for one cow and four sheep for one sheep. 
The smoke of the fire that torments them goes up for ever and ever. There is no relief day or night for those who worship the beast and its image, for anyone who has the mark of its name.” 
May God bless everyone who gives attention to these teachings. Whoever takes them to heart will become wise. 
I tell you,” Jesus added, “John is greater than anyone who has ever lived. But the one who is least in the Kingdom of God is greater than John.” 
Be generous to every living soul, and be gracious to the memory of the dead. 
“While I was asleep, I had a vision of a huge tree in the middle of the earth. 
I did not spend my time with other people, laughing and having a good time. In obedience to your orders I stayed by myself and was filled with anger. 
If you respect your father, you can make up for your sins, 
If you do, it will be like good medicine, healing your wounds and easing your pains. 
And so, my friends, as you wait for that Day, do your best to be pure and faultless in God's sight and to be at peace with him. 
Write them on the doorposts of your houses and on your gates. 
They explore the deepest darkness. : They search the depths of the earth : And dig for rocks in the darkness. 
The next day Holofernes led out his entire cavalry so that the Israelites in Bethulia could see them. 
Gideon's son Abimelech went to the town of Shechem, where all his mother's relatives lived, and told them 
and he favoured her son Abijah over all his other children, choosing him as the one to succeed him as king. 
Lord, help their tribe to grow strong; : Be pleased with what they do. : Crush all their enemies; : Let them never rise again.” 
While Jesus was saying this, a Jewish official came to him, knelt down before him, and said, “My daughter has just died; but come and place your hands on her, and she will live.” 
They told you not to worship and serve other gods and not to make the LORD angry by worshipping the idols you had made. If you had obeyed the LORD, then he would not have punished you. 
The people of Tyre will bring you gifts; : rich people will try to win your favour. 
The LORD will fight as he did at Mount Perazim and in the valley of Gibeon, in order to do what he intends to do — strange as his actions may seem. He will complete his work, his mysterious work. 
they would tell him to say “Shibboleth”. But he would say “Sibboleth”, because he could not pronounce it correctly. Then they would seize him and kill him there at one of the crossings of the Jordan. At that time 42,000 of the Ephraimites were killed. 
and say to the owner of the house: ‘The Teacher says to you, Where is the room where my disciples and I will eat the Passover meal?’  
but for those whom God has called, both Jews and Gentiles, this message is Christ, who is the power of God and the wisdom of God. 
“Why do you ask me concerning what is good?” answered Jesus. “There is only One who is good. Keep the commandments if you want to enter life.” 
David grew stronger and stronger, because the LORD Almighty was with him. 
You made your judgement known from heaven; : the world was afraid and kept silent, 
but the LORD was not willing to destroy Judah, because he had promised his servant David that his descendants would always continue to rule. 
Jesus said to him, “Go, your son will live!” : The man believed Jesus' words and went. 
and so you gently correct those who sin against you. You remind them of what they are doing, and warn them about it, so that they may abandon their evil ways and put their trust in you, Lord. 
He will settle disputes among the nations, : among the great powers near and far. : They will hammer their swords into ploughs : and their spears into pruning knives. : Nations will never again go to war, : never prepare for battle again. 
So the covenant was cancelled on that day. Those who bought and sold the sheep were watching me, and they knew that the LORD was speaking through what I did. 
The road the righteous travel is like the sunrise, getting brighter and brighter until daylight has come. 
The messenger who came to me at Ziklag and told me of Saul's death thought he was bringing good news. I seized him and had him put to death. That was the reward I gave him for his good news! 
Who can attack him and still be safe? : No one in all the world can do it. 
Tell them, ‘My father placed heavy burdens on you; I will make them even heavier. He beat you with a whip; I'll flog you with a horsewhip!’ ” 
His opponents stood up, but they did not accuse him of any of the evil crimes that I thought they would. 
but for a whole month, until it comes out of your ears, until you are sick of it. This will happen because you have rejected the LORD who is here among you and have complained to him that you should never have left Egypt.’ ” 
Whether it pleases us or not, we will obey the LORD our God, to whom we are asking you to pray. All will go well with us if we obey him.” 
Go after Wisdom like a hunter looking for game. 
Some of the believers who were scattered by the persecution which took place when Stephen was killed went as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus, and Antioch, telling the message to Jews only. 
There is no remedy for your injuries, and your wounds cannot be healed. All those who hear the news of your destruction clap their hands for joy. Did anyone escape your endless cruelty?
Though you do your best to praise him, : he is greater than you can ever express. : Though you honour him tirelessly and with all your strength, : you still cannot praise him enough. 
They immediately occupied the mountaintops, fortified the villages on the mountains, and stored up food in preparation for war. It was fortunate that they had recently harvested their fields. 
and that everyone who believes in him is set free from all the sins from which the Law of Moses could not set you free. 
The voice of the LORD makes the lightning flash. 
As they were being brought to the house, they were afraid and thought, “We are being brought here because of the money that was returned in our sacks the first time. They will suddenly attack us, take our donkeys, and make us his slaves.” 
Jesus said to him, “Then see! Your faith has made you well.” 
When King Rehoboam arrived in Jerusalem, he called together 180,000 of the best soldiers from the tribes of Benjamin and Judah. He intended to go to war and restore his control over the northern tribes of Israel. 
It does that baby no good to be born; it disappears into darkness, where it is forgotten. 
“Don't they know?” asks the LORD. : “Are all these evildoers ignorant? : They live by robbing my people, : and they never pray to me.” 
But if you obey him and do everything I command, I will fight against all your enemies. 
You produced more merchants than there are stars in the sky! But now they are gone, like locusts that spread their wings and fly away. 
Then Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowds, “I find no reason to condemn this man.” 
It also included all the region east of the River Jordan as far south as the Dead Sea and east to the foot of Mount Pisgah.
and Resen, which is between Nineveh and the great city of Calah. 
And he added, “Why, sir, are you still pursuing me, your servant? What have I done? What crime have I committed? 
ten stall-fed cattle, twenty pasture-fed cattle, and a hundred sheep, besides deer, gazelles, roebucks, and poultry. 
Nothing that comes from bribery or injustice will last, but the effects of loyalty will remain for ever. 
When King Ahaz, the son of Jotham and grandson of Uzziah, ruled Judah, war broke out. Rezin, king of Syria, and Pekah son of Remaliah, king of Israel, attacked Jerusalem, but were unable to capture it. 
So that evening the Syrians had fled for their lives, abandoning their tents, horses, and donkeys, and leaving the camp just as it was. 
And another scripture says: : “This is the stone that will make people stumble, : the rock that will make them fall.” : They stumbled because they did not believe in the word; such was God's will for them. 
The hired man runs away because he is only a hired man and does not care about the sheep.  
I will attack him while he is tired and discouraged. He will be frightened, and all his men will run away. I will kill only the king 
I did not tell anyone what God had inspired me to do for Jerusalem. Then in the middle of the night I got up and went out, taking a few of my companions with me. The only animal we took was the donkey that I rode on. 
and whose minds are in the dark. They have no part in the life that God gives, for they are completely ignorant and stubborn. 
But when they saw it, they were amazed; : they were afraid and ran away. 
and she told them to go back to the king and give him 
The LORD sees everything you do. Wherever you go, he is watching. 
May their ancient hills be covered with choice fruit. 
Get ready, Jeremiah; go and tell them everything I command you to say. Do not be afraid of them now, or I will make you even more afraid when you are with them. 
Jesus answered, “It isn't right to take the children's food and throw it to the dogs.” 
But they insisted until he gave in and let them go. The fifty of them went and looked high and low for Elijah for three days, but didn't find him. 
As the soldiers were about to take Paul into the fort, he spoke to the commander: “May I say something to you?” : “You speak Greek, do you?” the commander asked. 
But don't be too wicked or too foolish, either — why die before you have to? 
The priest shall dip his finger in the blood of the animal, put it on the projections at the corners of the altar, and pour out the rest of it at the base of the altar. 
“Don't be afraid,” Jesus told them, “it is I!”  
It all belongs to you. Every member of your family who is ritually clean may eat it. 
I hear everybody whispering, : “Terror is everywhere! : So let's report him to the authorities!” : Even my close friends wait for my downfall. : “Perhaps he can be tricked,” they say; : “then we can catch him and get revenge.” 
I will refresh those who are weary and will satisfy with food everyone who is weak from hunger. 
Can you use it to make anything? Can you even make a peg out of it to hang things on? 
That is how the people of Moab and Ammon will be punished for their pride and arrogance and for insulting the people of the LORD Almighty. 
Lazy people turn over in bed. They get no farther than a door swinging on its hinges. 
Moses was faithful in God's house as a servant, and he spoke of the things that God would say in the future. 
In her colourful gown she is led to the king, : followed by her bridesmaids, : and they also are brought to him. 
Causing trouble is all they ever think about; every time they open their mouth someone is going to be hurt. 
That is the sign of the promise which I am making to all living beings.” 
In the church God has put all in place: in the first place apostles, in the second place prophets, and in the third place teachers; then those who perform miracles, followed by those who are given the power to heal or to help others or to direct them or to speak in strange tongues. 
And no one has ever gone up to heaven except the Son of Man, who came down from heaven.” 
All these people are skilled with their hands, each of them an expert at his own craft. 
As I was watching, a fourth beast appeared. It was powerful, horrible, terrifying. With its huge iron teeth it crushed its victims, and then it trampled on them. Unlike the other beasts, it had ten horns. 
When the time of her purification is completed, whether for a son or daughter, she shall bring to the priest at the entrance of the Tent of the LORD's presence a one-year-old lamb for a burnt offering and a pigeon or a dove for a sin offering. 
In conclusion, my brothers and sisters, fill your minds with those things that are good and that deserve praise: things that are true, noble, right, pure, lovely, and honourable. 
Wisdom is a spirit that is friendly to people, but she will not forgive anyone who speaks against God, for God knows our feelings and thoughts, and hears our every word. 
I was born before the mountains, : before the hills were set in place, 
But Wisdom rescued her servants from the danger. 
Then Hananiah took the yoke off my neck, broke it in pieces, 
In the meantime Saul kept up his violent threats of murder against the followers of the Lord. He went to the High Priest 
You have made the land tremble, and you have cut it open; : now heal its wounds, because it is falling apart. 
A Roman officer there had a servant who was very dear to him; the man was sick and about to die. 
It will be like a man who goes away from home on a journey and leaves his servants in charge, after giving to each one his own work to do and after telling the doorkeeper to keep watch.  
The sun stood still and the moon did not move until the nation had conquered its enemies. This is written in The Book of Jashar. The sun stood still in the middle of the sky and did not go down for a whole day. 
“Sir,” they answered, “we want you to give us our sight!” 
The priests, the Levites, and some of the people settled in or near Jerusalem; the musicians, the temple guards, and the temple workmen settled in nearby towns; and the rest of the Israelites settled in the towns where their ancestors had lived.
You threw me down into the depths, : to the very bottom of the sea, : where the waters were all round me, : and all your mighty waves rolled over me. 
I may have the gift of inspired preaching; I may have all knowledge and understand all secrets; I may have all the faith needed to move mountains — but if I have no love, I am nothing. 
But when she could not hide him any longer, she took a basket made of reeds and covered it with tar to make it watertight. She put the baby in it and then placed it in the tall grass at the edge of the river. 
Can you show them how far to go, : or send them back again? 
So Moses gave Eleazar the tax as a special contribution to the LORD, as the LORD had commanded. 
From that land ambassadors come down the Nile in boats made of reeds. Go back home, swift messengers! Take a message back to your land divided by rivers, to your strong and powerful nation, to your tall and smooth-skinned people, who are feared all over the world. 
King Zedekiah had imprisoned me there and had accused me of announcing that the LORD had said, “I am going to let the king of Babylonia capture this city, 
and prayed aloud, “O LORD God of our ancestors, you rule in heaven over all the nations of the world. You are powerful and mighty, and no one can oppose you. 
Jezebel will not be buried; her body will be eaten by dogs in the territory of Jezreel.’ ” After saying this, the young prophet left the room and fled. 
So when the Samaritans came to him, they begged him to stay with them, and Jesus stayed there two days. 
People will faint from fear as they wait for what is coming over the whole earth, for the powers in space will be driven from their courses.  
Now, you priests, try asking God to be good to us. He will not answer your prayer, and it will be your fault. 
Abijah pursued Jeroboam's army and occupied some of his cities: Bethel, Jeshanah, and Ephron, and the villages near each of these cities. 
The man answered, “The woman you put here with me gave me the fruit, and I ate it.” 
Jesus answered, “How unbelieving and wrong you people are! How long must I stay with you? How long do I have to put up with you? Bring the boy here to me!”  
As surely as I am the living God, : I raise my hand and I vow 
So he sent other servants with this message for the guests: ‘My feast is ready now; my bullocks and prize calves have been butchered, and everything is ready. Come to the wedding feast!’  
You will have to give up the land I gave you, and I will make you serve your enemies in a land you know nothing about, because my anger is like a fire, and it will burn for ever.” 
But Joash said to all those who confronted him, “Are you standing up for Baal? Are you defending him? Anyone who stands up for him will be killed before morning. If Baal is a god, let him defend himself. It is his altar that was torn down.” 
He placed an image in the Temple, the place about which God had said to David and his son Solomon: “Here in Jerusalem, in this Temple, is the place that I have chosen out of all the territory of the twelve tribes of Israel as the place where I am to be worshipped. 
For it is not ourselves that we preach; we preach Jesus Christ as Lord, and ourselves as your servants for Jesus' sake. 
Unless this man came from God, he would not be able to do a thing.” 
When the survivors came back to camp, the leaders of Israel said, “Why did the LORD let the Philistines defeat us today? Let's go and bring the LORD's Covenant Box from Shiloh, so that he will go with us and save us from our enemies.” 
Put this altar outside the curtain which hangs in front of the Covenant Box. That is the place where I will meet you. 
From all the territory of Israel priests and Levites came south to Judah. 
He sinned against the LORD, following the wicked example of King Jeroboam son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin. 
You may collect what a foreigner owes you, but you must not collect what any of your own people owe you. 
“I will announce,” says the king, “what the LORD has declared. : He said to me: ‘You are my son; : today I have become your father. 
The LORD will bring all the nations together to make war on Jerusalem. The city will be taken, the houses looted, and the women raped. Half the people will go into exile, but the rest of them will not be taken away from the city. 
Jerusalem will be a source of joy, honour, and pride to me; and every nation in the world will fear and tremble when they hear about the good things that I do for the people of Jerusalem and about the prosperity that I bring to the city.” 
Your own honour comes from the respect that you show to your father. If children do not honour their mothers, it is their own disgrace. 
Now, go! I will help you to speak, and I will tell you what to say.” 
He made the wheels of their chariots get stuck, so that they moved with great difficulty. The Egyptians said, “The LORD is fighting for the Israelites against us. Let's get out of here!” 
Holofernes led Nebuchadnezzar's army down to the Mediterranean coast. He stationed guards in all the walled towns and selected certain local men in each of the towns as reserve troops. 
You have forgotten how I treated you when you were young, and you have made me angry by all the things you did. That is why I have made you pay for them all. Why did you add sexual immorality to all the other disgusting things you did?” The Sovereign LORD has spoken. 
May those who try to kill me : be defeated and disgraced! : May those who plot against me : be turned back and confused! 
So the LORD says to you, ‘I will bring disaster on you. I will do away with you and get rid of every male in your family, young and old alike. 
Even though you are so high above, : you care for the lowly, : and the proud cannot hide from you. 
Any male who has not been circumcised will no longer be considered one of my people, because he has not kept the covenant with me.” 
If you are willing to send our brother with us, we will go and buy food for you. 
When the Philistines saw him, they sent thirty young men to stay with him.  
“Foreigners who live in your land will gain more and more power, while you gradually lose yours. 
Evil tastes so good to them : that they keep some in their mouths to enjoy its flavour. 
When evil people are in power, crime increases. But the righteous will live to see the downfall of such people. 
Everything else that King Rehoboam did is recorded in The History of the Kings of Judah. 
Then I asked the angel, “Sir, what do these chariots mean?” 
I have never refused to help the poor; : never have I let widows live in despair 
Then he sent an angel to destroy Jerusalem, but he changed his mind and said to the angel, “Stop! That's enough!” The angel was standing by the threshing place of Araunah, a Jebusite. 
“What can be keeping him? Do you suppose Gabael has died? Maybe there is no one to give him the money.” 
“What did the LORD tell you?” Eli asked. “Don't keep anything from me. God will punish you severely if you don't tell me everything he said.” 
Shemida, and Hepher. 
In addition, he took all the temple equipment and broke it in pieces. He closed the Temple and set up altars in every part of Jerusalem. 
He shall put some of the blood on the projections at the corners of the incense altar inside the Tent and pour out the rest of it at the base of the altar used for burning sacrifices, which is at the entrance of the Tent. 
He knelt down and cried out in a loud voice, “Lord! Do not remember this sin against them!” He said this and died.
Those who have reverence for the LORD : will learn from him the path they should follow. 
So then, there were fourteen generations from Abraham to David, and fourteen from David to the exile in Babylon, and fourteen from then to the birth of the Messiah. 
But now you are proud, and you boast; all such boasting is wrong. 
My dear friends, we are now God's children, but it is not yet clear what we shall become. But we know that when Christ appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he really is. 
That is the gospel, the message that I preached to you. You are saved by the gospel if you hold firmly to it — unless it was for nothing that you believed. 
“Just wait,” the LORD says. “Wait for the day when I rise to accuse the nations. I have made up my mind to gather nations and kingdoms, in order to let them feel the force of my anger. The whole earth will be destroyed by the fire of my fury. 
he said, “Cut the living child in two and give each woman half of it.” 
to say to him, “The god you are trusting in has told you that you will not fall into my hands, but don't let that deceive you. 
you are saying, ‘I give up! The LORD has added sorrow to my troubles. I am worn out from groaning, and I can't find any rest!’ 
A proud person is a decoy to lure you into danger; like a spy, he will look for your weaknesses.  
The God of the people of Israel chose our ancestors and made the people a great nation during the time they lived as foreigners in Egypt. God brought them out of Egypt by his great power, 
There was no king in Israel at that time. All the people did just as they pleased.
Joab, whose mother was Zeruiah, and David's other officials met them at the pool, where they all sat down, one group on one side of the pool and the other group on the opposite side. 
As the sun was rising, Jesus stood at the water's edge, but the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. 
I may warn someone evil that he is going to die, but if he stops sinning and does what is right and good — 
Then they took to the Pharisees the man who had been blind. 
like slaves longing for cool shade; : like workers waiting for their pay. 
At Taanach, by the stream of Megiddo, : the kings came and fought; : the kings of Canaan fought, : but they took no silver away. 
A deadly disease spreads over their bodies : and causes their arms and legs to rot. 
The ruling prince, however, may go there to eat a holy meal in my presence. He is to enter and leave the gateway through the entrance room at the inner end.” 
But Raphael said to them, “Don't be afraid; everything is all right. Always remember to praise God. 
The people of Israel mourned for him and buried him, as the LORD had said through his servant, the prophet Ahijah. 
“Be on your guard against false prophets; they come to you looking like sheep on the outside, but on the inside they are really like wild wolves.  
Sing praise to the LORD; : tell of the wonderful things he has done. 
if you give food to the hungry and satisfy those who are in need, then the darkness around you will turn to the brightness of noon. 
And on the fourteenth day of the month they killed the lambs for the Passover sacrifice. The priests and Levites who were not ritually clean were so ashamed that they dedicated themselves to the LORD, and now they could sacrifice burnt offerings in the Temple. 
returned from the tomb, and told all these things to the eleven disciples and all the rest. 
so he called in Jehoiada, their leader, and demanded, “Why haven't you seen to it that the Levites collect from Judah and Jerusalem the tax which Moses, the servant of the LORD, required the people to pay for support of the Tent of the LORD's presence?” 
The sons of Japheth — Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras — were the ancestors of the peoples who bear their names. 
They spread fear and terror, and in their pride they are a law to themselves. 
When the leaders of Judah heard what had happened, they hurried from the royal palace to the Temple and took their places at the New Gate. 
A voice cries out, “Proclaim a message!” : “What message shall I proclaim?” I ask. : “Proclaim that all human beings are like grass; : they last no longer than wild flowers. 
Thomas (called the Twin) said to his fellow-disciples, “Let us all go with the Teacher, so that we may die with him!” 
We have not listened to your servants the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings, our rulers, our ancestors, and our whole nation. 
He said to his brothers, “I am about to die, but God will certainly take care of you and lead you out of this land to the land he solemnly promised to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.” 
I will condemn you for adultery and murder, and in my anger and fury I will punish you with death. 
“I'm not the troublemaker,” Elijah answered. “You are — you and your father. You are disobeying the LORD's commands and worshipping the idols of Baal. 
The Philistines were told that David had been made king of Israel, so their army set out to capture him. When David heard of it, he went down to a fortified place. 
Do you think I have attacked your country and destroyed it without the LORD's help? The LORD himself told me to attack it and destroy it.” 
And there was the LORD standing beside him. “I am the LORD, the God of Abraham and Isaac,” he said. “I will give to you and to your descendants this land on which you are lying. 
Hear the sound of their sobs : along the road up to Luhith, : the cries of distress : on the way down to Horonaim. 
My child, when you help someone, don't reprimand him at the same time. When you make a gift, don't say anything that hurts. 
and to the governors, who have been appointed by him to punish the evildoers and to praise those who do good. 
She answered, “Now I know that you are a man of God and that the LORD really speaks through you!”
In days to come the people of Israel, the descendants of Jacob, will take root like a tree, and they will blossom and bud. The earth will be covered with the fruit they produce. 
Moses was amazed by what he saw, and went near the bush to get a better look. But he heard the Lord's voice
There in Babylonia beside the River Chebar, I heard the LORD speak to me and I felt his power. 
The three famous soldiers forced their way through the Philistine camp, drew some water from the well, and brought it back to David. But he would not drink it; instead he poured it out as an offering to the LORD  
“If I am a man of God,” Elijah answered, “may fire come down from heaven and kill you and your men!” At once fire came down and killed the officer and his men. 
As Menahem was on his way from Tirzah, he completely destroyed the city of Tappuah, its inhabitants, and the surrounding territory, because the city did not surrender to him. He even ripped open the bellies of all the pregnant women. 
Everyone who earns his living by fishing in the Nile will groan and cry; their hooks and their nets will be useless. 
Zacchaeus hurried down and welcomed him with great joy. 
they have no conscience; they do not keep their promises, and they show no kindness or pity for others. 
Jotham became king at the age of 25, and he ruled in Jerusalem for sixteen years. His mother was Jerushah, the daughter of Zadok. 
We send you, then, Judas and Silas, who will tell you in person the same things we are writing. 
For the sake of the Lord submit to every human authority: to the Emperor, who is the supreme authority, 
The following priests, blowing trumpets, marched next: Azariah, Ezra, Meshullam, Judah, Benjamin, Shemaiah, and Jeremiah. Next came Zechariah, the son of Jonathan and grandson of Shemaiah. (His ancestors also included Mattaniah, Micaiah, and Zaccur, of the clan of Asaph.) 
How were you treated any worse than the other churches, except that I did not bother you for financial help? Please forgive me for being so unfair! 
“Happy are all who love you : and are pleased to see you prosper. : Those who mourn over your suffering now : will one day be happy; : your happiness will bring them joy for ever. 
For the entrance itself there is to be a curtain nine metres long made of fine linen woven with blue, purple, and red wool, and decorated with embroidery. It is to be supported by four posts in four bases. 
They started discussing among themselves: “He says this because we haven't any bread.” 
and the LORD came down in a pillar of cloud, stood at the entrance of the Tent, and called out, “Aaron! Miriam!” The two of them stepped forward, 
They had only recently returned home to Judah from exile and had just rededicated the Temple and its utensils and its altar after they had been defiled. 
With these words they threw the crowd and the city authorities into an uproar. 
Come, LORD! Save me, my God! : You punish all my enemies : and leave them powerless to harm me. 
He said, “Our enemies were stronger than we were and came out of the city to fight us in the open, but we drove them back to the city gate. 
Zedekiah replied, “Don't let anyone know about this conversation, and your life will not be in danger. 
Don't you understand yet? Don't you remember when I broke the five loaves for the 5,000 men? How many baskets did you fill?  
Since you are God's dear children, you must try to be like him. 
Very early on Sunday morning, at sunrise, they went to the tomb. 
On the 21st day of the seventh month of that same year, the LORD spoke again through the prophet Haggai. 
Then all the army leaders, including Johanan son of Kareah and Azariah son of Heshaiah, came with people of every class 
So he called the servant in. ‘You worthless slave!’ he said. ‘I forgave you the whole amount you owed me, just because you asked me to.  
Go to the one place of worship and slaughter there one of your sheep or cattle for the Passover meal to honour the LORD your God. 
If we continue to endure, : we shall also rule with him. : If we deny him, : he also will deny us. 
But on the mountains of Israel the trees will again grow leaves and bear fruit for you, my people Israel. You are going to come home soon. 
But if it was an accident and he did not mean to kill him, he can escape to a place which I will choose for you, and there he will be safe. 
Micah's idol remained there all the time that the Tent where God was worshipped remained at Shiloh.In those days, before Israel had a king, there was a Levite living far back in the hill country of Ephraim. He took a woman from Bethlehem in Judah to be his concubine, 
The priest shall take the lamb and the olive oil and present them as a special gift to the LORD for the priest. 
Job, you challenged Almighty God; : will you give up now, or will you answer? 
“I have set a time for judgement,” says God, : “and I will judge with fairness. 
“Happy are you when people insult you and persecute you and tell all kinds of evil lies against you because you are my followers.  
Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, “I told you that he never prophesies anything good for me; it's always something bad!” 
Then they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and left the Temple.
because the time is coming when I will restore my people, Israel and Judah. I will bring them back to the land that I gave their ancestors, and they will take possession of it again. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
Joab knew that King David missed Absalom very much, 
“When one of God's faithful people has died, prepare food for the family, but never do this when sinners die. 
But in order that the choice of one son might be completely the result of God's own purpose, God said to her, “The elder will serve the younger.” He said this before they were born, before they had done anything either good or bad; so God's choice was based on his call, and not on anything they had done. 
The following are the regulations for repayment offerings, which are very holy. 
Suddenly a strong wind blew up, and the waves began to spill over into the boat, so that it was about to fill with water. 
Binnui son of Henadad built the next section, from Azariah's house to the corner of the wall; 
The leaders are like lions roaring over the animals they have killed. They kill the people, take all the money and property they can get, and by their murders leave many widows. 
I have no strength left to save myself; : there is nowhere I can turn for help. 
During the meal Jesus said, “I tell you, one of you will betray me.” 
Shobal was the father of Reaiah, who was the father of Jahath, the father of Ahumai and Lahad, the ancestors of the people who lived in Zorah. 
Happy are those who are humble; :   they will receive what God has promised! 
Your cattle will be butchered before your very eyes, but you will not eat any of the meat. Your donkeys will be dragged away while you look on, and they will not be given back to you. Your sheep will be given to your enemies, and there will be no one to help you. 
Unused fields could yield plenty of food for the poor, but unjust people keep them from being farmed. 
I will announce your commands to kings : and I will not be ashamed. 
Then Jesus began to teach his disciples: “The Son of Man must suffer much and be rejected by the elders, the chief priests, and the teachers of the Law. He will be put to death, but three days later he will rise to life.”  
‘I am the God of your ancestors, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.’ Moses trembled with fear and dared not look. 
Encourage the people of Jerusalem. : Tell them they have suffered long enough : and their sins are now forgiven. : I have punished them in full for all their sins.” 
I do not say this to condemn you; for, as I have said before, you are so dear to us that we are always together, whether we live or die. 
At the corner of every street : your people collapse from weakness; : they are like deer caught in a hunter's net. : They have felt the force of God's anger. 
the altar on which to burn offerings, with its bronze grating attached, its poles, and all its equipment; the washbasin and its base; 
The spirit screamed, threw the boy into a bad fit, and came out. The boy looked like a corpse, and everyone said, “He is dead!” 
The Israelite tribes sent messengers all through the territory of the tribe of Benjamin to say, “What is this crime that you have committed? 
Then they made signs to his father, asking him what name he would like the boy to have. 
Because of this, in one day she will be struck with plagues — : disease, grief, and famine. : And she will be burnt with fire, : because the Lord God, who judges her, is mighty.” 
The leaders of Zoan and Memphis are fools. They were supposed to lead the nation, but they have misled it. 
When they came to the place which God had told him about, Abraham built an altar and arranged the wood on it. He tied up his son and placed him on the altar, on top of the wood. 
But when you help a needy person, do it in such a way that even your closest friend will not know about it.  
The Ammonites and the Moabites attacked the Edomite army and completely destroyed it, and then they turned on each other in savage fighting. 
The two of them were running, but the other disciple ran faster than Peter and reached the tomb first. 
The armies met in the hill country of Ephraim. King Abijah went up Mount Zemaraim and called out to Jeroboam and the Israelites: “Listen to me!” he said. 
and just as he was finishing, Samuel arrived. Saul went out to meet him and welcome him, 
There was no one in the group who was in need. Those who owned fields or houses would sell them, bring the money received from the sale, 
and to tell them that the LORD Almighty had said, “I will break this people and this city, and it will be like this broken clay jar that cannot be put together again. People will bury their dead even in Topheth because there will be nowhere else to bury them. 
If we let him go on in this way, everyone will believe in him, and the Roman authorities will take action and destroy our Temple and our nation!” 
and fastened the other two ends of the cords to the two settings and in this way attached them in front to the shoulder straps of the ephod. 
They spread their wings and flew up from the earth while I was watching, and the wheels went with them. They paused at the east gate of the Temple, and the dazzling light was over them. 
But Simon and his companions went out searching for him, 
If, then, the whole church meets together and everyone starts speaking in strange tongues — and if some ordinary people or unbelievers come in, won't they say that you are all crazy? 
He will make you greater than any other nation that he has created, and you will bring praise and honour to his name. You will be his own people, as he promised.”
Nebo, Baal Meon (this name was changed), and Sibmah. They gave new names to the towns they rebuilt. 
Some people keep quiet because they don't have anything to say; others keep quiet because they know the right time to speak. 
and so she said to Abram, “The LORD has kept me from having children. Why don't you sleep with my slave? Perhaps she can have a child for me.” Abram agreed with what Sarai said. 
Because I was driven by the desire to find her, I have been richly rewarded. 
Do your best to preserve the unity which the Spirit gives by means of the peace that binds you together. 
The servant does not deserve thanks for obeying orders, does he?  
Hungry people will eat the fool's crops — : even the grain growing among thorns — : and thirsty people will envy his wealth. 
When it was evening, a rich man from Arimathea arrived; his name was Joseph, and he also was a disciple of Jesus. 
Rich people who see a brother or sister in need, yet close their hearts against them, cannot claim that they love God. 
“People do not light a lamp and cover it with a bowl or put it under a bed. Instead, they put it on the lampstand, so that people will see the light as they come in. 
It so happened that the king of Israel had put the city gate under the command of the officer who was his personal attendant. The officer was trampled to death there by the people and died, as Elisha had predicted when the king went to see him. 
His answer made his enemies ashamed of themselves, while the people rejoiced over all the wonderful things that he did. 
like the sun shining on the Temple of the Most High, like the rainbow gleaming in glory against the clouds, 
But if any nation submits to the king of Babylonia and serves him, then I will let it stay on in its own land, to farm it and live there. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
From the sky you send rain on the hills, : and the earth is filled with your blessings. 
The soldiers were arranged for battle with the main camp north of the city and the rest of the men to the west. Joshua spent the night in the valley. 
You give it to them, and they eat it; : you provide food, and they are satisfied. 
“When you come to a town or village, go in and look for someone who is willing to welcome you, and stay with him until you leave that place.  
because God is always at work in you to make you willing and able to obey his own purpose. 
I have not neglected your instructions, : for you yourself are my teacher. 
Take your places in the Temple by clans, according to the responsibilities assigned to you by King David and his son King Solomon, 
And, so to speak, when Abraham paid the tenth, Levi (whose descendants collect the tenth) also paid it. 
The Sovereign LORD, the holy God of Israel, says to the people, “Come back and quietly trust in me. Then you will be strong and secure.” But you refuse to do it! 
He said, “My servant Moses is dead. Get ready now, you and all the people of Israel, and cross the River Jordan into the land that I am giving them. 
Then it goes out and brings seven other spirits even worse than itself, and they come and live there. So when it is all over, that person is in a worse state than he was at the beginning.” 
As the LORD had commanded Moses, the Levites were not registered with the rest of the Israelites. 
As Samuel grew up, the LORD was with him and made everything that Samuel said come true. 
Morning, noon, and night : my complaints and groans go up to him, : and he will hear my voice. 
and taken to Joshua. Joshua then called all the men of Israel to him and ordered the officers who had gone with him to come and put their feet on the necks of the kings. They did so. 
And so these people will disappear like morning mist, like the dew that vanishes early in the day. They will be like chaff which the wind blows from the threshing place, like smoke from a chimney. 
But if anyone wants to argue about it, all I have to say is that neither we nor the churches of God have any other custom in worship. 
But Raphael asked, “Why do you need to know that?” : “Tell me the truth,” said Tobit. “What is your name, and who are you?” 
you will tell them that the water of the Jordan stopped flowing when the LORD's Covenant Box crossed the river. These stones will always remind the people of Israel of what happened here.” 
If we faithfully obey everything that God has commanded us, he will be pleased with us.’
May you live to see your grandchildren! : Peace be with Israel!
for their sins and the sins of their ancestors. They have burnt incense at pagan hill shrines and spoken evil of me. So I will punish them as their past deeds deserve.” 
“No man is to disgrace his father by having intercourse with any of his father's wives.
The king called Moses and said, “You may go and worship the LORD; even your women and children may go with you. But your sheep, goats, and cattle must stay here.” 
After they had been there several days, Festus explained Paul's situation to the king: “There is a man here who was left a prisoner by Felix; 
If anyone should attack you and try to kill you, the LORD your God will keep you safe, as someone guards a precious treasure. As for your enemies, however, he will throw them away, as someone hurls stones with a sling. 
the son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech, 
Then Jesus spoke up and said to them, “Did you have to come with swords and clubs to capture me, as though I were an outlaw?  
He answered, “You must go now, Daniel, because these words are to be kept secret and hidden until the end comes. 
Then what about a human being, that worm, that insect? : What is a human life worth in God's eyes?
Are you trying to frighten me? I'm nothing but a leaf; : you are attacking a piece of dry straw. 
‘I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.’ He is the God of the living, not of the dead.” 
He placed in the Temple all the objects his father Abijah had dedicated to God, as well as the gold and silver objects that he himself dedicated. 
He named the well “Vow”. That is how the city of Beersheba got its name. 
The Israelites moved on and set up camp in the plains of Moab east of the Jordan and opposite Jericho. 
But there is a God in heaven, who reveals mysteries. He has informed Your Majesty what will happen in the future. Now I will tell you the dream, the vision you had while you were asleep. 
It is murder to deprive someone of his living or to cheat an employee of his wages. 
The rich forests and farmlands will be totally destroyed, in the same way that a fatal sickness destroys a person. 
Show your greatness in the sky, O God, : and your glory over all the earth. 
The prophet bandaged his face with a cloth, to disguise himself, and went and stood by the road, waiting for the king of Israel to pass. 
But the king answered, “No, I will pay you the full price. I will not give as an offering to the LORD something that belongs to you, something that costs me nothing.” 
When Jesus said this, one of the guards there slapped him and said, “How dare you talk like that to the High Priest!” 
Iphdeiah, and Penuel. 
The Philistines attacked, and after fierce fighting they defeated the Israelites and killed about 4,000 men on the battlefield. 
God will show more mercy on Judgement Day to Tyre and Sidon than to you.  
So tell them that in the morning they will be brought forward, tribe by tribe. The tribe that I pick out will then come forward, clan by clan. The clan that I pick out will come forward, family by family. The family that I pick out will come forward, one by one. 
The LORD has ended the power of the evil rulers 
How much better it would have been today if our people had eaten the food they took when they defeated the enemy. Just think how many more Philistines they would have killed!” 
Help us, LORD! : There is not a good person left; : honest people can no longer be found. 
By chance, however, a Syrian soldier shot an arrow which struck King Ahab between the joints of his armour. “I'm wounded!” he cried out to his chariot driver. “Turn round and pull out of the battle!” 
Be careful, then, to love the LORD your God. 
So again they sent for all the Philistine kings and said, “Send the Covenant Box of Israel back to its own place, so that it won't kill us and our families.” There was panic throughout the city because God was punishing them so severely. 
The king said to Joseph, “God has shown you all this, so it is obvious that you have greater wisdom and insight than anyone else. 
Are we really insane? It is for God's sake. Or are we sane? Then it is for your sake. 
Marriage is to be honoured by all, and husbands and wives must be faithful to each other. God will judge those who are immoral and those who commit adultery. 
Let the mob stone them and attack them with swords, kill their children, and burn down their houses. 
Then he announced to all the people of Israel, “If you give your approval and if it is the will of the LORD our God, let us send messengers to the rest of our people and to the priests and Levites in their towns, and tell them to assemble here with us. 
Bring together all the possessions of the people who live there and pile them up in the town square. Then burn the town and everything in it as an offering to the LORD your God. It must be left in ruins for ever and never again be rebuilt. 
Then he will show you a large upstairs room, prepared and furnished, where you will get everything ready for us.” 
Since you are eager to have the gifts of the Spirit, you must try above everything else to make greater use of those which help to build up the church. 
The LORD came from Mount Sinai; : he rose like the sun over Edom : and shone on his people from Mount Paran. : 10,000 angels were with him, : a flaming fire at his right-hand. 
If, however, the watchman sees the enemy coming and does not sound the alarm, the enemy will come and kill those sinners, but I will hold the watchman responsible for their death. 
“As a result the master of this dishonest manager praised him for doing such a shrewd thing; because the people of this world are much more shrewd in handling their affairs than the people who belong to the light.” 
Each room in the lowest storey was 2.2 metres wide, in the middle storey 2.7 metres wide, and in the top storey 3.1 metres wide. The temple wall on each floor was thinner than on the floor below so that the rooms could rest on the wall without having their beams built into it. 
King David dedicated them for use in worship, along with the silver and gold he took from the nations he had conquered — 
They say, ‘We will soon be building houses again. The city is like a cooking pot, and we are like the meat in it, but at least it protects us from the fire.’ 
“Why are we sitting still?” God's people ask. “Come on, we will run to the fortified cities, and die there. The LORD our God has condemned us to die; he has given us poison to drink, because we have sinned against him. 
the sun to rule over the day; : his love is eternal; 
For just as death came by means of a man, in the same way the rising from death comes by means of a man. 
Three days later Laban was told that Jacob had fled. 
Then the Devil took Jesus to Jerusalem, the Holy City, set him on the highest point of the Temple, 
I praise you and honour you, God of my ancestors. : You have given me wisdom and strength; : you have answered my prayer : and shown us what to tell the king.” 
then his master shall take him to the place of worship. There he is to make him stand against the door or the door-post and pierce his ear. Then he will be his slave for life. 
But Tobias insisted, “No, I can't! Please let me go back to my father.” 
the southern part of Judah; and the plain that reaches from Zoar to Jericho, the city of palm trees. 
Show your greatness in the sky, O God, : and your glory over all the earth.
You in turn will be covered with shame instead of honour. You yourself will drink and stagger. The LORD will make you drink your own cup of punishment, and your honour will be turned to disgrace. 
Then he said to David, “You are right, and I am wrong. You have been so good to me, while I have done such wrong to you! 
And so the time is coming when I will deal with Babylonia's idols. The whole country will be put to shame, and all its people will be killed. 
and two rows of bronze pomegranates. 
Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, 
Moses said to the Levites, “Today you have consecrated yourselves as priests in the service of the LORD by killing your sons and brothers, so the LORD has given you his blessing.” 
He makes sure that orphans and widows are treated fairly; he loves the foreigners who live with our people, and gives them food and clothes. 
From there it watches near and far : for something to kill and eat. 
But if no help comes after five days, then I will do as you say.” 
So Naomi said to her, “Ruth, your sister-in-law has gone back to her people and to her god. Go back home with her.” 
If there had been nothing wrong with the first covenant, there would have been no need for a second one. 
But they rebelled against Almighty God : and put him to the test. : They did not obey his commandments, 
On his way home his servants met him with the news, “Your boy is going to live!” 
“Who are you, Lord?” he asked. :   “I am Jesus, whom you persecute,” the voice said. 
They treat me with disgust; : they think they are too good for me, : and even come and spit in my face. 
And they said many other insulting things to him. 
The LORD gave Moses 
Through my servants the prophets I gave your ancestors commands and warnings, but they disregarded them and suffered the consequences. Then they repented and acknowledged that I, the LORD Almighty, had punished them as they deserved and as I had determined to do.’ ” 
The LORD replies, : “That is just what is going to happen. : The soldier's prisoners will be taken away, : and the tyrant's loot will be seized. : I will fight against whoever fights you, : and I will rescue your children. 
You are my protector; : why have you abandoned me? : Why must I go on suffering : from the cruelty of my enemies? 
Jeroboam, I will make you king of Israel, and you will rule over all the territory that you want. 
How terrible for you! You are like unmarked graves which people walk on without knowing it.” 
(The LORD is about to restore the glory of Israel, as it was before her enemies plundered her.) 
You killed the one who leads to life, but God raised him from death — and we are witnesses to this. 
King Horam of Gezer came to the aid of Lachish, but Joshua defeated him and his army and left none of them alive. 
David asked the young man who had brought him the news, “Where are you from?” : He answered, “I'm an Amalekite, but I live in your country.” 
Blow the trumpet; sound the alarm : on Zion, God's sacred hill. : Tremble, people of Judah! : The day of the LORD is coming soon. 
When the king of Egypt was stubborn and refused to let us go, the LORD killed every firstborn male in the land of Egypt, both human and animal. That is why we sacrifice every firstborn male animal to the LORD, but buy back our firstborn sons. 
They were given four cities: Shechem and its pasture lands in the hill country of Ephraim (one of the cities of refuge), Gezer, 
And there is another scripture that says, “People will look at him whom they pierced.” 
The conquered people will taunt their conquerors and show their scorn for them. They will say, “You take what isn't yours, but you are doomed! How long will you go on getting rich by forcing your debtors to pay up?” 
The men who did the work were thoroughly honest. They were supervised by four Levites: Jahath and Obadiah of the clan of Merari, and Zechariah and Meshullam of the clan of Kohath. (The Levites were all skilful musicians.) 
So everyone who lives in union with Christ does not continue to sin; but whoever continues to sin has never seen him or known him. 
The words “he was accepted as righteous” were not written for him alone. 
When you go without food, wash your face and comb your hair,  
Jacob became angry with Rachel and said, “I can't take the place of God. He is the one who keeps you from having children.” 
Then one of the creatures flew down to me, carrying a burning coal that he had taken from the altar with a pair of tongs. 
After this I heard what sounded like the roar of a large crowd of people in heaven, saying, “Praise God! Salvation, glory, and power belong to our God! 
The weapons we use in our fight are not the world's weapons but God's powerful weapons, which we use to destroy strongholds. We destroy false arguments; 
They spent their time in learning from the apostles, taking part in the fellowship, and sharing in the fellowship meals and the prayers. 
Then the men of the city are to stone him to death, and so you will get rid of this evil. Everyone in Israel will hear what has happened and be afraid. 
Some time later King Nahash of Ammon died, and his son Hanun became king. 
“The brave soldiers have fallen, : they were killed in battle. : Jonathan lies dead in the hills. 
The LORD said to Joshua, “I am putting into your hands Jericho, with its king and all its brave soldiers. 
Most beautiful of women, : where has your lover gone? : Tell us which way your lover went, : so that we can help you find him. 
and was handed the book of the prophet Isaiah. He unrolled the scroll and found the place where it is written
The LORD puts a curse on the homes of the wicked, but blesses the homes of the righteous. 
Listen! I have told you this before the time comes. 
You say that I drive out demons because Beelzebul gives me the power to do so. Well, then, who gives your followers the power to drive them out? What your own followers do proves that you are wrong!  
When the people in the synagogue heard this, they were filled with anger. 
O Lord God of the universe, look upon us and have mercy. 
The LORD answers, “I have trampled the nations like grapes, and no one came to help me. I trampled them in my anger, and their blood has stained all my clothing. 
So King Asa took all the silver and gold that was left in the Temple and the palace, and sent it by some of his officials to Damascus, to King Benhadad of Syria, the son of Tabrimmon and grandson of Hezion, with this message
He handed them over to Mithredath, chief of the royal treasury, who made an inventory of them for Sheshbazzar, the governor of Judah, 
But they will not get very far, because everyone will see how stupid they are. That is just what happened to Jannes and Jambres. 
Godless men are like those reeds; : their hope is gone, once God is forgotten. 
and said, “Sir, we remember that while that liar was still alive he said, ‘I will be raised to life three days later.’ 
Jews want miracles for proof, and Greeks look for wisdom. 
LORD, the earth is full of your constant love; : teach me your commandments. 
where he stayed forty days, being tempted by Satan. Wild animals were there also, but angels came and helped him. 
They were enjoying themselves when all of a sudden some sexual perverts from the town surrounded the house and started beating on the door. They said to the old man, “Bring out that man that came home with you! We want to have sex with him!” 
Anyone who sees Leviathan : loses courage and falls to the ground. 
Law was introduced in order to increase wrongdoing; but where sin increased, God's grace increased much more. 
Pilate went out once more and said to the crowd, “Look, I will bring him out here to you to let you see that I cannot find any reason to condemn him.” 
“Asher's land will produce rich food. : He will provide food fit for a king. 
Her great power reaches into every part of the world, and she sets everything in useful order. 
and those parts that we think aren't worth very much are the ones which we treat with greater care; while the parts of the body which don't look very nice are treated with special modesty, 
“Glory to God in the highest heaven, : and peace on earth to those with whom he is pleased!” 
He opened a rock, and water gushed out, : flowing through the desert like a river. 
This book contains the messages about Judah and Jerusalem which God revealed to Isaiah son of Amoz during the time when Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah were kings of Judah. 
They waited as long as they thought they should, but when he still did not open the door, they took the key and opened it. And there was their master, lying dead on the floor. 
Many lamps were burning in the upstairs room where we were meeting. 
Please forgive me, sir, for any wrong I have done. The LORD will make you king, and your descendants also, because you are fighting his battles; and you will not do anything evil as long as you live. 
Aaron had four sons, Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
The power of the LORD came on me with great force, and as his Spirit carried me off, I felt bitter and angry. 
to be shepherds of the flock that God gave you and to take care of it willingly, as God wants you to, and not unwillingly. Do your work, not for mere pay, but from a real desire to serve. 
The second beast looked like a bear standing on its hind legs. It was holding three ribs between its teeth, and a voice said to it, “Go on, eat as much meat as you can!” 
There will be so many that they will completely cover the ground. They will eat everything that the hail did not destroy, even the trees that are left. 
with the figures of lions, bulls, and winged creatures on the panels; and on the frames, above and underneath the lions and bulls, there were spiral figures in relief. 
but sinners are completely destroyed, : and their descendants are wiped out. 
Finally the king issued a command to all his people: “Take every newborn Hebrew boy and throw him into the Nile, but let all the girls live.”
When Bathsheba heard that her husband had been killed, she mourned for him. 
But I have seen the prophets in Jerusalem do even worse: : they commit adultery and tell lies; : they help people to do wrong, : so that no one stops doing what is evil. : To me, they are all as bad : as the people of Sodom and Gomorrah. 
But by becoming a curse for us Christ has redeemed us from the curse that the Law brings; for the scripture says, “Anyone who is hanged on a tree is under God's curse.” 
Moses built an altar and named it “The LORD is my Banner”. 
I have assigned as the possession of your tribes the land of the nations that are still left, as well as of all the nations that I have already conquered, from the River Jordan in the east to the Mediterranean Sea in the west. 
Because of Solomon's sin I will punish the descendants of David, but not for all time.’ ” 
So Achish gave him the town of Ziklag, and for this reason Ziklag has belonged to the kings of Judah ever since. 
There is to be one bud below each of the three pairs of branches. 
So the priest gave David the sacred bread, because the only bread he had was the loaves offered to God, which had been removed from the sacred table and replaced by fresh bread. 
The LORD Almighty planned it. He planned it in order to put an end to their pride in what they had done and to humiliate their honoured ones. 
Then their kings and princes will enter the gates of Jerusalem and have the same royal power that David had. Together with the people of Judah and of Jerusalem, they will ride in chariots and on horses, and the city of Jerusalem will always be filled with people. 
They crucified him and then divided his clothes among them by throwing dice. 
Yes, they burned like an oven with their plotting. All night their anger smouldered, and in the morning it burst into flames. 
I was so sure of all this that I made plans at first to visit you, in order that you might be blessed twice. 
The LORD will dry up the Gulf of Suez, and he will bring a hot wind to dry up the Euphrates, leaving only seven tiny streams, so that anyone will be able to walk across. 
This is what he says: ‘Jeroboam will die in battle, and the people of Israel will be taken away from their land into exile.’ ” 
But even though he was God's Son, he learnt through his sufferings to be obedient. 
The prayer of a humble person goes past the clouds and keeps on going until it reaches the Lord Most High, where it stays until he answers by seeing that justice is done and that the guilty are punished. 
I, the LORD your God, brought you out of Egypt so that you would no longer be slaves. I broke the power that held you down and I let you walk with your head held high.” 
Then he prayed, “O LORD, open his eyes and let him see!” The LORD answered his prayer, and Elisha's servant looked up and saw the hillside covered with horses and chariots of fire all round Elisha. 
He brought this illness upon me, : but now I can see my son Tobias!” : Then Tobias went happily into the house, praising God at the top of his voice. He told his father how successful he had been, that he had not only brought back the money, but had married Raguel's daughter Sarah, who was on her way and would soon arrive. 
Israelites were not used in forced labour, but served as soldiers, officers, chariot commanders, and horsemen. 
If God arrests you and brings you to trial, : who is there to stop him? 
he also stripped the gold from the temple doors and the gold with which he himself had covered the doorposts, and he sent it all to Sennacherib. 
and then said, “We are sure that the LORD has given us the whole country. All the people there are terrified of us.”
After I bring you out of the countries where you have been scattered and gather you together, I will accept the sacrifices that you burn, and the nations will see that I am holy. 
The LORD Almighty says to the priests, “A son honours his father, and a servant honours his master. I am your father — why don't you honour me? I am your master — why don't you respect me? You despise me, and yet you ask, ‘How have we despised you?’ 
Choose six cities, 
Young and old alike lie dead in the streets, : Young men and women, killed by enemy swords. : You slaughtered them without mercy on the day of your anger. 
But now I am happy — not because I made you sad, but because your sadness made you change your ways. That sadness was used by God, and so we caused you no harm. 
He gave some measure of Wisdom to everyone, : but poured her out on those who love him. 
Don't be quick to speak or lazy and negligent in your work. 
The LORD says, : “A sound is heard in Ramah, : the sound of bitter weeping. : Rachel is crying for her children; : they are gone, : and she refuses to be comforted. 
their speech is filled with bitter curses. 
Be glad that we belong to him; : let all who worship him rejoice! 
Help to carry one another's burdens, and in this way you will obey the law of Christ. 
Your faith, then, does not rest on human wisdom but on God's power. 
People of Israel, run away from there! Run for your life from my fierce anger. 
We have sinned as our ancestors did; : we have been wicked and evil. 
Teach me, LORD, what you want me to do, : and I will obey you faithfully; : teach me to serve you with complete devotion. 
“But you, his son, have not humbled yourself, even though you knew all this. 
After this, Joshua and his army went from Eglon up into the hills to Hebron, attacked it 
at the age of 22, and he ruled in Jerusalem for one year. His mother was Athaliah, the daughter of King Ahab and granddaughter of King Omri of Israel. 
Every nation that heard how the LORD had defeated Israel's enemies was terrified, 
Elkanah had two wives, Hannah and Peninnah. Peninnah had children, but Hannah had none. 
The rest of the goats will provide milk for you and your family, and for your servant women as well.
The violent storm continued, so on the next day they began to throw some of the ship's cargo overboard, 
Then he said to Jether, his eldest son, “Go ahead, kill them!” But the boy did not draw his sword. He hesitated, because he was still only a boy. 
Why do you cry out so loudly? Why are you suffering like a woman in labour? Is it because you have no king, and your counsellors are dead? 
Everyone in the city was utterly amazed. They bowed down and worshipped God, praying together, “Our God, you are worthy of great praise. Today you have triumphed over the enemies of your people.” 
You took the silver and gold jewellery that I had given you, used it to make male images, and committed adultery with them. 
A Samaritan woman came to draw some water, and Jesus said to her, “Give me a drink of water.”  
But Jesus answered, “Rather, how happy are those who hear the word of God and obey it!” 
For the whole Law is summed up in one commandment: “Love your neighbour as you love yourself.” 
Don't hide yourself from your servant; : I am in great trouble — answer me now! 
Do your duty at the proper time, and the Lord, at the time he thinks proper, will give you your reward.
I am beaten down like dry grass; : I have lost my desire for food. 
This is what the LORD says to his people Israel: “Even though the Assyrians are strong and numerous, they will be destroyed and disappear. My people, I made you suffer, but I will not do it again. 
The LORD says, “The people of Israel have surrounded me with lies and deceit, and the people of Judah are still rebelling against me, the faithful and holy God.
to the descendants of Aaron who were of the clan of Kohath, which was descended from Levi. Their assignment was the first to be made. 
He answered, “I heard you in the garden; I was afraid and hid from you, because I was naked.” 
The leaders of the Levites — Conaniah, Shemaiah and his brother Nethanel, Hashabiah, Jeiel, and Jozabad — contributed 5,000 lambs and young goats and 500 bulls for the Levites to offer as sacrifices. 
He gives animals their food : and feeds the young ravens when they call. 
So they let Rebecca and her old family servant go with Abraham's servant and his men. 
That day they killed about 10,000 of the best Moabite soldiers; none of them escaped. 
Then I will teach sinners your commands, : and they will turn back to you. 
When the officer heard about Jesus, he sent some Jewish elders to ask him to come and heal his servant. 
And that is how God will bless my descendants, : because he has made an eternal covenant with me, : an agreement that will not be broken, : a promise that will not be changed. : That is all I desire; : that will be my victory, : and God will surely bring it about. 
You must be perfect — just as your Father in heaven is perfect!
Has anyone ever seen or heard of such a thing? Has a nation ever been born in a day? Zion will not have to suffer long, before the nation is born. 
Joshua did so, 
Some of our group went to the tomb and found it exactly as the women had said, but they did not see him.” 
This land extended from the town of Aroer, on the edge of the River Arnon, all the way north to Mount Sirion, that is, Mount Hermon. 
Christ rules there above all heavenly rulers, authorities, powers, and lords; he has a title superior to all titles of authority in this world and in the next. 
You had ornaments of gold and silver, and you always wore clothes of embroidered linen and silk. You ate bread made from the best flour, and had honey and olive oil to eat. Your beauty was dazzling, and you became a queen. 
Everyone will know that I, the LORD, have drawn my sword and that I will not put it away. 
“They refuse to return to me, and so they must return to Egypt, and Assyria will rule them. 
David went on from there to Mizpah in Moab and said to the king of Moab, “Please let my father and mother come and stay with you until I find out what God is going to do for me.” 
Some of the leaders of the Israelites came to consult me about the LORD's will. 
The sin of the Jews brought rich blessings to the world, and their spiritual poverty brought rich blessings to the Gentiles. Then, how much greater the blessings will be when the complete number of Jews is included! 
If you listen to advice and are willing to learn, one day you will be wise. 
The priests are to have a portion of this holy area. From east to west their portion is to measure 12.5 kilometres, and from north to south, five kilometres. The Temple of the LORD is to be in the middle of this area. 
Enjoy it with your children, your servants, and the Levites, foreigners, orphans, and widows who live in your towns. 
Skilled workers are admired for the things they make, and leaders' wisdom is proved by their words. 
“Now what have I done?” David asked. “Can't I even ask a question?” 
The LORD says, : “I will remove the war chariots from Israel : and take the horses from Jerusalem; : the bows used in battle will be destroyed. : Your king will make peace among the nations; : he will rule from sea to sea, : from the River Euphrates to the ends of the earth.” 
The mountains are the pastures where they feed, : where they search for anything green to eat. 
He answered, “I have an arrangement with Micah, who pays me to serve as his priest.” 
Beat your breasts in grief because the fertile fields and the vineyards have been destroyed, 
Do not bow down to their gods or worship them, and do not adopt their religious practices. Destroy their gods and break down their sacred stone pillars. 
LORD, I have so many enemies! : Lead me to do your will; : make your way plain for me to follow. 
The Sovereign LORD said, “Wring your hands! Stamp your feet! Cry in sorrow because of all the evil, disgusting things the Israelites have done. They are going to die in war, by famine, and by disease. 
But thanks be to God! For though at one time you were slaves to sin, you have obeyed with all your heart the truths found in the teaching you received. 
It was Enoch, the seventh direct descendant from Adam, who long ago prophesied this about them: “The Lord will come with many thousands of his holy angels 
the table, its poles, and all its equipment; the bread offered to God; 
We have escaped like a bird from a hunter's trap; : the trap is broken, and we are free! 
Everything you do, O God, is holy. : No god is as great as you. 
They came to Jericho, and as Jesus was leaving with his disciples and a large crowd, a blind beggar named Bartimaeus son of Timaeus was sitting by the road. 
After waiting six years Jehoiada the priest decided that it was time to take action. He made a pact with five army officers: Azariah son of Jeroham, Ishmael son of Jehohanan, Azariah son of Obed, Maaseiah son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat son of Zichri. 
Judas threw the coins down in the Temple and left; then he went off and hanged himself. 
On the contrary, they saw that God had given me the task of preaching the gospel to the Gentiles, just as he had given Peter the task of preaching the gospel to the Jews. 
So the girl went out and asked her mother, “What shall I ask for?” : “The head of John the Baptist,” she answered. 
After this, Jesus travelled in Galilee; he did not want to travel in Judea, because the Jewish authorities there were wanting to kill him. 
rain that hardens the dust into lumps? 
On each side of the entrance there were 6.6 metres of curtains, with three posts and three bases. 
They were not grateful to the family of Gideon for all the good that he had done for Israel.
This went on year after year; whenever they went to the house of the LORD, Peninnah would upset Hannah so much that she would cry and refuse to eat anything. 
How happy are those who live in your Temple, : always singing praise to you. 
But there is someone else who testifies on my behalf, and I know that what he says about me is true.  
All the trees in the land will know : that I am the LORD. : I cut down the tall trees : and make the small trees grow tall. : I wither up the green trees : and make the dry trees become green. : I, the LORD, have spoken. I will do what I have said I would do.”
He has pity on the weak and poor; : he saves the lives of those in need. 
Listen! The crack of the whip, : the rattle of wheels, : the gallop of horses, : the jolting of chariots! 
When his period of service in the Temple was over, Zechariah went back home. 
The Assyrian official learnt that the emperor had left Lachish and was fighting against the nearby city of Libnah; so he went there to consult him. 
In this book are the words that Moses spoke to the people of Israel when they were in the wilderness east of the River Jordan. They were in the Jordan Valley near Suph, between the town of Paran on one side and the towns of Tophel, Laban, Hazeroth, and Dizahab on the other. 
Our father said to us, ‘You know that my wife Rachel bore me only two sons. 
The men from Dan set up the idol to be worshipped, and Jonathan, the son of Gershom and grandson of Moses, served as a priest for the tribe of Dan, and his descendants served as their priests until the people were taken away into exile. 
Then the LORD told Moses to make a metal snake and put it on a pole, so that anyone who was bitten could look at it and be healed. 
You told me to build a temple on your sacred mountain, an altar in Jerusalem, the city you chose as your home. It is a copy of that temple in heaven, which you prepared at the beginning. 
A foreign nation will take all the crops that you have worked so hard to grow, while you receive nothing but constant oppression and harsh treatment. 
When they try to escape from an iron sword, : a bronze bow will shoot them down. 
Afterwards she discovered that she was pregnant and sent a message to David to tell him. 
When he arrived at the place, he said to them, “Pray that you will not fall into temptation.” 
Haven't I got enough madmen already? Why bring another one to annoy me with his daft actions right here in my own house?”
Saul also went back home to Gibeah. Some powerful men, whose hearts God had touched, went with him. 
“When your people Israel are defeated by their enemies because they have sinned against you and then when they turn to you and come to this Temple, humbly praying to you for forgiveness, 
After consulting with the people, the king ordered some musicians to put on the robes they wore on sacred occasions and to march ahead of the army, singing: “Praise the LORD! His love is eternal!” 
When the priests who carry the Covenant Box of the LORD of all the earth put their feet in the water, the Jordan will stop flowing, and the water coming downstream will pile up in one place.” 
They promise them freedom while they themselves are slaves of destructive habits — for a person is a slave of anything that has conquered him. 
I praise you, O LORD; : teach me your ways. 
So when Jesus heard what was being said, he left Judea and went back to Galilee; 
They were responsible for the Covenant Box, the table, the lampstand, the altars, the utensils the priests use in the Holy Place, and the curtain at the entrance to the Most Holy Place. They were responsible for all the service connected with these items. 
and I saw many inexperienced young men, but noticed one foolish fellow in particular. 
Then Judith sang a song of thanksgiving there with all Israel present, and the people joined in this song of praise. 
Abner looked back and said, “Is that you, Asahel?” : “Yes,” he answered. 
Then he sent them to Bethlehem with these instructions: “Go and make a careful search for the child, and when you find him, let me know, so that I too may go and worship him.” 
This is the Good News about Jesus Christ, the Son of God.  
Joseph said to the people, “You see, I have now bought you and your lands for the king. Here is seed for you to sow in your fields. 
Then he warns them in anger : and terrifies them with his fury. 
I will bring war on you to punish you for breaking our covenant, and if you gather in your cities for safety, I will send incurable diseases among you, and you will be forced to surrender to your enemies. 
and to enable even the Gentiles to praise God for his mercy. As the scripture says: : “And so I will praise you among the Gentiles; : I will sing praises to you.” 
After that he will attack the nations by the sea and conquer many of them. But a foreign leader will defeat him and put an end to his arrogance; indeed he will turn the arrogance of Syria's king back on him.  
“Make a lampstand of pure gold. Make its base and its shaft of hammered gold; its decorative flowers, including buds and petals, are to form one piece with it. 
And Nathan added, “Then, while you are still talking with King David, I will come in and confirm your story.” 
The Lord is awesome in his greatness; : his power is overwhelming. 
But Peter and John answered them, “You yourselves judge which is right in God's sight — to obey you or to obey God. 
This happened on the 23rd day of the third month, the month of Sivan. Mordecai called the king's secretaries and dictated letters to the Jews and to the governors, administrators, and officials of all the 127 provinces from India to Ethiopia. The letters were written to each province in its own language and system of writing and to the Jews in their language and system of writing. 
She will give you wisdom and knowledge like food and drink. 
Bethlehem, Etam, Tekoa, 
May the Lord lead you into a greater understanding of God's love and the endurance that is given by Christ. 
For forty years the LORD led you through the desert, and your clothes and sandals never wore out. 
“If someone starts a fire in his own field and it spreads through the weeds to someone else's field and burns up corn that is growing or that has been cut and stacked, the one who started the fire is to pay for the damage. 
To the clan of Gershon, family by family, were assigned thirteen towns in the territories of Issachar, Asher, Naphtali, and East Manasseh in Bashan. 
There are some ungrateful sinners who abandon those who stand behind them, and they cause them loss of property. 
Abraham named that place “The LORD Provides”. And even today people say, “On the LORD's mountain he provides.” 
Do not refuse to lend him something, just because the year when debts are cancelled is near. Do not let such an evil thought enter your mind. If you refuse to make the loan, he will cry out to the LORD against you, and you will be held guilty. 
She will take you down to the world of the dead; the road she walks is the road to death. 
May grace and peace be yours in full measure through your knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. 
Aaron and his sons must always wear them when they go into the Tent of my presence or approach the altar to serve as priests in the Holy Place, so that they will not be killed for exposing themselves. This is a permanent rule for Aaron and his descendants.
“Afterwards many foreigners will pass by and ask one another why I, the LORD, have done such a thing to this great city. 
The High Priest questioned Jesus about his disciples and about his teaching. 
Moab has been shattered! Cry out! Moab has been disgraced. It is in ruins, and all the surrounding nations jeer at it. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
Do this, so that innocent people will not die and so that you will not be guilty of putting them to death in the land that the LORD is giving you. 
Clan of Pahath Moab: Adna, Chelal, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezalel, Binnui, and Manasseh 
Remember that the Lord will give you as a reward what he has kept for his people. For Christ is the real Master you serve. 
Those who hate me for no reason : are more numerous than the hairs of my head. : My enemies tell lies against me; : they are strong and want to kill me. : They made me give back things I did not steal. 
From the territory of Naphtali they received three cities: Kedesh in Galilee, with its pasture lands (one of the cities of refuge), Hammoth Dor, and Kartan, with their pasture lands. 
You will long to see this country again, but you will never return.” 
They said to him, “We have not received any letters from Judea about you, nor have any of our people come from there with any news or anything bad to say about you. 
You could have made animals like these that would not have to attack those people to kill them, but could scare them to death just by looking at them. 
Not only did he welcome our request; he was so eager to help that of his own free will he decided to go to you. 
Simon (whom he named Peter) and his brother Andrew; James and John, Philip and Bartholomew, 
Zephaniah read the letter to me, 
He boasts, “Every one of my commanders is a king! 
At once he found his brother Simon and told him, “We have found the Messiah.” (This word means “Christ”.) 
Relieve me of my worries : and save me from all my troubles. 
When the king is concerned with justice, the nation will be strong, but when he is only concerned with money, he will ruin his country. 
because both of you rebelled against my command in the wilderness of Zin. When the whole community complained against me at Meribah, you refused to acknowledge my holy power before them.” (Meribah is the spring at Kadesh in the wilderness of Zin.) 
There will be the shout of command, the archangel's voice, the sound of God's trumpet, and the Lord himself will come down from heaven. Those who have died believing in Christ will rise to life first; 
Even though the Judeans were their own relatives, the Israelite army captured 200,000 women and children as prisoners and took them back to Samaria, along with large amounts of loot. 
He did not restrain his anger : or spare their lives, : but killed them with a plague. 
“Yes,” said Jesus, “if you yourself can! Everything is possible for the person who has faith.” 
Where there is knowledge, the rooms are furnished with valuable, beautiful things. 
The LORD gave Moses and Aaron the following instructions. 
“I came to set the earth on fire, and how I wish it were already kindled!  
And now there is waiting for me the victory prize of being put right with God, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will give me on that Day — and not only to me, but to all those who wait with love for him to appear. 
The people of Damascus are weak and have fled in terror. They are in pain and misery like a woman in labour. 
Debir, Geder, 
Amon was 22 years old when he became king of Judah, and he ruled in Jerusalem for two years. His mother was Meshullemeth, the daughter of Haruz, from the town of Jotbah. 
When Mordecai received Esther's message, 
against the kings of Elam, Goiim, Babylonia, and Ellasar, five kings against four. 
O LORD, my God, I come to you for protection; : rescue me and save me from all who pursue me, 
It included Heshbon and all the cities on the plateau: Dibon, Bamoth Baal, Beth Baalmeon, 
Then Anna said, “My son is dead. I'm sure of it.” She began to weep and to mourn for Tobias, 
Just before dawn the LORD looked down from the pillar of fire and cloud at the Egyptian army and threw them into a panic. 
The child grew, and on the day that he was weaned, Abraham gave a great feast. 
and asked for letters of introduction to the synagogues in Damascus, so that if he should find there any followers of the Way of the Lord, he would be able to arrest them, both men and women, and bring them back to Jerusalem. 
Our message is that God was making the whole human race his friends through Christ. God did not keep an account of their sins, and he has given us the message which tells how he makes them his friends. 
Then Jesus went with his disciples to a place called Gethsemane, and he said to them, “Sit here while I go over there and pray.”  
There were some shepherds in that part of the country who were spending the night in the fields, taking care of their flocks. 
People with a hot temper do foolish things; wiser people remain calm. 
Jesus answered, “You belong to this world here below, but I come from above. You are from this world, but I am not from this world.  
These are the rules and regulations that the LORD gave the Israelites through Moses in the plains of Moab across the River Jordan from Jericho.
Abijah, however, grew more powerful. He had fourteen wives and fathered 22 sons and sixteen daughters. 
The Jewish High Priest goes into the Most Holy Place every year with the blood of an animal. But Christ did not go in to offer himself many times, 
The LORD commanded Moses, 
So then, if someone comes to you who does not bring this teaching, do not welcome him or her in your homes; do not even say, “Peace be with you.” 
But the people forgot the LORD their God, and so he let the Philistines and the king of Moab and Sisera, commander of the army of the city of Hazor, fight against your ancestors and conquer them. 
Pray to the owner of the harvest that he will send out workers to gather in his harvest.”
His pleasure is not in strong horses, : nor his delight in brave soldiers; 
He split rocks open in the desert : and gave them water from the depths. 
“Take their camels and all their livestock! I will scatter in every direction those people who cut their hair short, and I will bring disaster on them from every side. 
“Remember what the Amalekites did to you as you were coming from Egypt. 
so that your people may obey you all the time they live in the land which you gave to our ancestors. 
Finally, our brothers and sisters, you learnt from us how you should live in order to please God. This is, of course, how you have been living. And now we beg and urge you in the name of the Lord Jesus to do even more. 
Then the king called Ziba, Saul's servant, and said, “I am giving Mephibosheth, your master's grandson, everything that belonged to Saul and his family. 
The Commentary on the Book of Kings contains the stories of the sons of Joash, the prophecies spoken against him, and the record of how he rebuilt the Temple. His son Amaziah succeeded him as king.
and we answered that the boy could not leave his father; if he did, his father would die. 
Whether it was two days, a month, a year, or longer, as long as the cloud remained over the Tent, they did not move on; but when it lifted, they moved. 
When they had finished mocking him, they took off the purple robe and put his own clothes back on him. Then they led him out to crucify him. 
The sides of the tank were 75 millimetres thick. Its rim was like the rim of a cup, curving outwards like the petals of a lily. The tank held about 40,000 litres. 
When Pilate heard this, he tried to find a way to set Jesus free. But the crowd shouted back, “If you set him free, that means that you are not the Emperor's friend! Anyone who claims to be a king is a rebel against the Emperor!” 
These are the commands that the LORD gave Moses on Mount Sinai for the people of Israel.
Can anyone measure the ocean by handfuls : or measure the sky with his hands? : Can anyone hold the soil of the earth in a cup : or weigh the mountains and hills on scales? 
So they seized the son and killed him and threw his body out of the vineyard. 
So they called Rebecca and asked, “Do you want to go with this man?” : “Yes,” she answered. 
The LORD said to me, “Take a large piece of writing material and write on it in large letters: ‘Quick Loot, Fast Plunder’. 
Paul said, “I am standing before the Emperor's own court of judgement, where I should be tried. I have done no wrong to the Jews, as you yourself well know. 
Tribes east of the Jordan — Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh: 120,000 men trained to use all kinds of weapons. 
But if you forgive someone who has wronged you, your sins will be forgiven when you pray. 
“Is there anyone among you who can still remember how splendid the Temple used to be? How does it look to you now? It must seem like nothing at all. 
The Egyptian slave-drivers beat the Israelite foremen, whom they had put in charge of the work. They demanded, “Why aren't you people making the same number of bricks as you made before?” 
And then she met him; she was dressed like a prostitute and was making plans. 
Joseph was no longer able to control his feelings in front of his servants, so he ordered them all to leave the room. No one else was with him when Joseph told his brothers who he was. 
She presented to King Solomon the gifts she had brought: more than four tonnes of gold and a very large amount of spices and jewels. The amount of spices she gave him was by far the greatest that he ever received at any time. 
Those who live as their human nature tells them to, have their minds controlled by what human nature wants. Those who live as the Spirit tells them to, have their minds controlled by what the Spirit wants. 
So Jacob's sons did as he had commanded them; 
Benhadad's officials were watching for a good sign, and when Ahab said “brother”, they took it up at once, and said, “As you say, Benhadad is your brother!” : “Bring him to me,” Ahab ordered. When Benhadad arrived, Ahab invited him to get in the chariot with him. 
He let hungry people settle there, : and they built a city to live in. 
Ungodly people and these ungodly things they make are equally hated by God, 
He risked his life when he killed Goliath, and the LORD won a great victory for Israel. When you saw it, you were glad. Why, then, do you now want to do wrong to an innocent man and kill David for no reason at all?” 
Daniel answered, “May Your Majesty live for ever! 
But any person who sins deliberately, whether he is a native or a foreigner, is guilty of treating the LORD with contempt, and he shall be put to death, 
As he saw the crowds, his heart was filled with pity for them, because they were worried and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. 
Don't commit the same sin twice. The punishment you get the first time ought to be enough. 
The region of Goshen, where the Israelites lived, was the only place where there was no hail. 
The wicked will disappear from the place where they used to live; 
but the world must know that I love the Father; that is why I do everything as he commands me. :   “Come, let us go from this place.
I will punish them severely and take full revenge on them. They will feel my anger. Then they will know that I am the LORD.”
When one of the men sitting at table heard this, he said to Jesus, “How happy are those who will sit down at the feast in the Kingdom of God!” 
Your hunger will be so great that you will eat your own children. 
When the celebrations had ended, everyone returned home, and Judith went back to Bethulia to live on her own estate. For the rest of her life she was famous throughout the land of Israel. 
The nation is like a mighty lion; : When it is sleeping, no one dares wake it. : Whoever blesses Israel will be blessed, : And whoever curses Israel will be cursed.” 
Let us give glory to God! He is able to make you stand firm in your faith, according to the Good News I preach about Jesus Christ and according to the revelation of the secret truth which was hidden for long ages in the past. 
I tell you, I will never again drink this wine until the day I drink the new wine in the Kingdom of God.” 
The world and everything in it that people desire is passing away; but those who do the will of God live for ever. 
All the kings in the world will praise you, LORD, : because they have heard your promises. 
On account of the angels, then, a woman should have a covering over her head to show that she is under her husband's authority. 
Ephraim also had a son named Rephah, whose descendants were as follows: Resheph, Telah, Tahan, 
“So tell them what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying. I will gather them out of the countries where I scattered them, and will give the land of Israel back to them. 
“Every day of your life, keep the Lord our God in mind. Never sin deliberately or disobey any of his commands. Always do what is right and never get involved in anything evil. 
“Tell them that I, the Sovereign LORD, warn them that as surely as I am the living God, the people who live in the ruined cities will be killed. Those living in the country will be eaten by wild animals. Those hiding in the mountains and in caves will die of disease. 
Laban said to Jacob, “You shouldn't work for me for nothing just because you are my relative. How much pay do you want?” 
The threshing places will be full of corn; : the pits beside the presses will overflow with wine and olive oil. 
No one can say, then, that you were baptized as my disciples. 
Joshua said to the people, “Purify yourselves, because tomorrow the LORD will perform miracles among you.” 
The entrance room was the full width of the Temple, nine metres, and was 54 metres high. The inside of the room was overlaid with pure gold. 
Remember that there will be difficult times in the last days. 
But the son of Paul's sister heard about the plot; so he went to the fort and told Paul. 
But now you are being punished as you deserve. 
Her husband has to go and eat with the neighbours, where he can't hold back his bitter sighs. 
But all who find safety in you will rejoice; : they can always sing for joy. : Protect those who love you; : because of you they are truly happy. 
Their idolatry made the LORD jealous; : the evil they did made him angry. 
People who are proud will soon be disgraced. It is wiser to be modest. 
May the Lord grant him his mercy on that Day! And you know very well how much he did for me in Ephesus.
Judas went straight to Jesus and said, “Peace be with you, Teacher,” and kissed him. 
The king ignored the advice of the older men and spoke harshly to the people, 
They said, “Don't bring those prisoners here! We have already sinned against the LORD and made him angry enough to punish us. Now you want to do something that will increase our guilt.” 
Everyone has heard of your loyalty to the gospel, and for this reason I am happy about you. I want you to be wise about what is good, but innocent in what is evil. 
I tell you, then, do not let anyone deceive you with false arguments, no matter how good they seem to be. 
the LORD, whose promises I praise. 
Make yourself popular in the synagogue. Bow your head to men of authority. 
“No servant can be the slave of two masters; such a servant will hate one and love the other or will be loyal to one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money.” 
The skin of an animal offered as a burnt offering belongs to the priest who offers the sacrifice. 
When the chief priests and the officer in charge of the temple guards heard this, they wondered what had happened to the apostles. 
Dan and his son Hushim. 
Don't you realize that as long as David is alive, you will never be king of this country? Now go and bring him here — he must die!” 
When they came here, then, I lost no time, but on the very next day I sat in the court and ordered the man to be brought in. 
It was all used to pay the workers and to buy the materials used in the repairs. 
Now on the previous day the LORD had said to Samuel, 
God made everything, and you can no more understand what he does than you understand how new life begins in the womb of a pregnant woman. 
So go and meet him in the morning when he goes down to the Nile. Take with you the stick that was turned into a snake, and wait for him on the bank of the river. 
Then he uttered this prophecy: : “The message of Balaam son of Beor, : The words of the man who can see clearly, 
How pretty you are, how beautiful; : how complete the delights of your love. 
If you obey him, the LORD will keep the promise he made when he told me that my descendants would rule Israel as long as they were careful to obey his commands faithfully with all their heart and soul. 
He also said in another place, : “You will be a priest for ever, : in the priestly order of Melchizedek.” 
Bilhah, Ezem, Tolad, 
Jesus perceived what they were thinking, so he said, “Why are you thinking such evil things?  
But the LORD says, : “Do not cling to events of the past : or dwell on what happened long ago. 
But whenever you go into a town and are not welcomed, go out in the streets and say,  
The LORD turned loose the full force of his fury; : he lit a fire in Zion that burnt it to the ground. 
These are the men whom King David put in charge of the music at the place of worship in Jerusalem after the Covenant Box was moved there. 
So he ordered them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they asked him to stay with them for a few days.
He said to Bagoas, the eunuch who was in charge of his personal affairs, “Go and persuade the Hebrew woman, who is in your care, to come to my tent to eat and drink with us. 
I have not stopped giving thanks to God for you. I remember you in my prayers 
and they pulled me up out of the well. After that I was kept in the courtyard. 
But he said to them, “I must preach the Good News about the Kingdom of God in other towns also, because that is what God sent me to do.” 
But you dishonour me when you say that my altar is worthless and when you offer on it food that you despise. 
May the LORD give you children — : you and your descendants! 
I have not been led astray to honour them : by kissing my hand in reverence to them. 
When her owners realized that their chance of making money was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them to the authorities in the public square. 
and from the clan of Uzziel, Amminadab, in charge of 112. 
He abandoned them to the power of the heathen, : and their enemies ruled over them. 
She got up during the night, took my son from my side while I was asleep, and carried him to her bed; then she put the dead child in my bed. 
who died for us in order that we might live together with him, whether we are alive or dead when he comes. 
Obed Edom son of Jeduthun and 68 men of his clan were to assist them. Hosah and Obed Edom were in charge of guarding the gates. 
Dor (on the coast), Goiim (in Galilee), 
Jesus got out of the boat, and when he saw the large crowd, his heart was filled with pity for them, and he healed those who were ill. 
But I promise that as surely as I live and as surely as my presence fills the earth, 
When did we ever see you a stranger and welcome you in our homes, or naked and clothe you?  
To honour the Lord is a heartfelt delight; : it will give you a long and happy life, 
“Perform the rites of ordination for Aaron and his sons for seven days exactly as I have commanded you. 
Those left in the land were the five Philistine cities, all the Canaanites, the Sidonians, and the Hivites who lived in the Lebanon Mountains from Mount Baal Hermon as far as Hamath Pass. 
and I'm just as strong today as I was when Moses sent me out. I am still strong enough for war or for anything else. 
Do you know the laws that govern the skies, : and can you make them apply to the earth? 
A noise is heard on the hilltops: : it is the people of Israel crying and pleading, : because they have lived sinful lives : and have forgotten the LORD their God. 
Now forgive my sin this once and pray to the LORD your God to take away this fatal punishment from me.” 
Meanwhile, inside the royal palace Queen Vashti was giving a banquet for the women. 
The wall was made of jasper, and the city itself was made of pure gold, as clear as glass. 
but then that nation disobeys me and does evil, I will not do what I said I would. 
“I hate divorce,” says the LORD God of Israel. “I hate it when one of you does such a cruel thing to his wife. Make sure that you do not break your promise to be faithful to your wife.” 
The King will reply, ‘I tell you, whenever you did this for one of the least important of these members of my family, you did it for me!’ 
All of us who administer your empire — the supervisors, the governors, the lieutenant-governors, and the other officials — have agreed that Your Majesty should issue an order and enforce it strictly. Give orders that for thirty days no one be permitted to request anything from any god or from any human being except from Your Majesty. Anyone who violates this order is to be thrown into a pit filled with lions. 
The children of your dear Sister send you their greetings.
Wise people are rewarded with wealth, but fools are known by their foolishness. 
Still, there were some from the tribes of Asher, Manasseh, and Zebulun who were willing to come to Jerusalem. 
You will see this and be filled with joy; : You will tremble with excitement. : The wealth of the nations will be brought to you; : From across the sea their riches will come. 
The total number of males one month old or older that were enrolled was 8,600. 
Then they returned to their country by another road, since God had warned them in a dream not to go back to Herod. 
Out of the 600,000 Israelites who marched through the wilderness, these two were the only ones spared and allowed to enter the rich and fertile land that was to be theirs. 
They replied, “If you want to serve this people well, give a favourable answer to their request, and they will always serve you loyally.” 
there the plants flourish. : They grow like an orchard of pomegranate trees : and bear the finest fruits. : There is no lack of henna and nard, 
Some Pharisees who were there with him heard him say this and asked him, “Surely you don't mean that we are blind, too?” 
It is not right to refuse honour to a poor person who is intelligent, and is not right to give honour to a sinner. 
Men ought to love their wives just as they love their own bodies. A man who loves his wife loves himself. 
“Put to death any woman who practises magic. 
They also took away the shovels and the ash containers used in cleaning the altar, the tools used in tending the lamps, the bowls used for catching the blood from the sacrifices, the bowls used for burning incense, and all the other bronze articles used in the temple service. 
the wind that comes at the LORD's command will be much stronger than that! It is the LORD himself who is pronouncing judgement on his people. 
“My fellow-Israelites, descendants of Abraham, and all Gentiles here who worship God: it is to us that this message of salvation has been sent! 
Peter put them all out of the room, and knelt down and prayed; then he turned to the body and said, “Tabitha, get up!” She opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter, she sat up. 
and all will openly proclaim that Jesus Christ is Lord, : to the glory of God the Father. 
and left. The servants came and saw that the doors were locked, but they only thought that the king was inside, relieving himself. 
Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away. 
So King Zedekiah promised me in secret, “I swear by the living God, the God who gave us life, that I will not put you to death or hand you over to the men who want to kill you.” 
But God raised him from death, setting him free from its power, because it was impossible that death should hold him prisoner. 
So King Jehoash of Israel went into battle against King Amaziah of Judah. They met at Beth Shemesh in Judah, 
If you love your life, stay away from the traps that catch the wicked along the way. 
but they intermarried with them : and adopted their pagan ways. 
King David and the leaders of the Levites chose the following Levite clans to lead the services of worship: Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun. They were to proclaim God's messages, accompanied by the music of harps and cymbals. This is the list of persons chosen to lead the worship, with the type of service that each group performed
and then the LORD told me 
Aaron answered, “If I had eaten the sin offering today, would the LORD have approved? The people presented their sin offering to the LORD today, and they brought their burnt offering, but still these terrible things have happened to me.” 
Jacob continued to live in the land of Canaan, where his father had lived, 
Jeroboam was an able young man, and when Solomon noticed how hard he worked, he put him in charge of all the forced labour in the territory of the tribes of Manasseh and Ephraim. 
Joshua was the father of Joiakim; Joiakim was the father of Eliashib; Eliashib was the father of Joiada; 
so Jesus' brothers said to him, “Leave this place and go to Judea, so that your followers will see the things that you are doing. 
For the Holy Spirit had not yet come down on any of them; they had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. 
When Moses had finished speaking to them, he covered his face with a veil. 
“Even when you have been in the land a long time and have children and grandchildren, do not sin by making for yourselves an idol in any form at all. This is evil in the LORD's sight, and it will make him angry. 
Now, as he promised, the LORD your God has given your fellow-Israelites peace. So go back home to the land which you claimed for your own, the land on the east side of the Jordan, that Moses, the LORD's servant, gave you. 
So when he was raised from death, his disciples remembered that he had said this, and they believed the scripture and what Jesus had said. 
Laugh with him now, and one day you will have to cry over him, grinding your teeth in regret. 
When Gideon was returning from the battle by way of Heres Pass, 
Tell me what presents you want, and set the payment for the bride as high as you wish; I will give you whatever you ask, if you will only let me marry her.” 
A lonely ruin now, Jerusalem recalls her ancient splendour. : When she fell to the enemy, there was no one to help her; : Her conquerors laughed at her downfall. 
He cried out in a loud voice: “She has fallen! Great Babylon has fallen! She is now haunted by demons and unclean spirits; all kinds of filthy and hateful birds live in her. 
The LORD said to me, 
All my enemies, and especially my neighbours, : treat me with contempt; : those who know me are afraid of me; : when they see me in the street, they run away. 
The noise made by the creatures' wings was heard even in the outer courtyard. It sounded like the voice of Almighty God. 
There was also a poor man named Lazarus, covered with sores, who used to be brought to the rich man's door,  
Now go and reassure your men. I swear by the LORD's name that if you don't, not one of them will be with you by tomorrow morning. That would be the worst disaster you have suffered in all your life.” 
Now it's your turn to be in trouble, : and you are too stunned to face it. 
The LORD says, “These people fill their mansions with things taken by crime and violence. They don't even know how to be honest. 
How much longer, Lord, will you just look on? : Rescue me from their attacks; : save my life from these lions! 
Didn't we tell you before we left that this would happen? We told you to leave us alone and let us go on being slaves of the Egyptians. It would be better to be slaves there than to die here in the desert.” 
Shouldn't I punish them for these things : and take revenge on a nation such as this? 
Nadab and Abihu died when they offered unholy fire to the LORD. 
But the work they do holds this world together. When they do their work, it is the same as offering prayer.
Jehoiada did not want Athaliah killed in the temple area, so he called out the army officers and said, “Take her out between the rows of guards, and kill anyone who tries to rescue her.” 
They have already left the way that I commanded them to follow; they have made a bull calf out of melted gold and have worshipped it and offered sacrifices to it. They are saying that this is their god, who led them out of Egypt. 
May his name be praised, : now and for ever. 
So that day Esau started on his way back to Edom. 
If a man cannot afford two doves or two pigeons, he shall bring one kilogramme of flour as a sin offering. He shall not put any olive oil or any incense on it, because it is a sin offering, not a grain offering. 
And as John was about to finish his mission, he said to the people, ‘Who do you think I am? I am not the one you are waiting for. But listen! He is coming after me, and I am not good enough to take his sandals off his feet.’ 
If a fellow-Israelite living near you becomes so poor that he sells himself to you as a slave, you shall not make him do the work of a slave. 
Then the faithful ones came down to their leaders; : the LORD's people came to him ready to fight. 
their land extended from Heshbon to Ramath Mizpeh and Betonim, from Mahanaim to the border of Lodebar. 
Jesus then said to his disciples, “I assure you: it will be very hard for rich people to enter the Kingdom of heaven.  
Then Tobias asked, “Azarias, my friend, what diseases can be cured by this gall-bladder, heart, and liver?” 
But he ignored the advice of the older men and went instead to the young men who had grown up with him and who were now his advisers. 
God will rescue you from slander; : he will save you when destruction comes. 
If you keep quiet at a time like this, help will come from heaven to the Jews, and they will be saved, but you will die and your father's family will come to an end. Yet who knows — maybe it was for a time like this that you were made queen!” 
blessed him, and said, “May the Most High God, who made heaven and earth, bless Abram! 
because of all the evil that has been done by the people of Judah and Jerusalem, together with their kings and leaders, their priests and prophets. 
In the past, even when Saul was still our king, you led the people of Israel in battle, and the LORD promised you that you would lead his people and be their ruler.” 
Those who were oppressed walk over it now : and trample it under their feet. 
Then Jesus sent two of them with these instructions: “Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him  
Solomon did not make slaves of Israelites; they served as his soldiers, officers, commanders, chariot captains, and horsemen. 
The finest gold and jewels : Cannot equal its value. 
the burning sand will become a lake, : and dry land will be filled with springs. : Where jackals used to live, : marsh grass and reeds will grow. 
In the centre of this section, a special area 12.5 kilometres by ten kilometres is to be dedicated to the LORD. 
And now, sir, all my relatives have turned against me and are demanding that I hand my son over to them, so that they can kill him for murdering his brother. If they do this, I will be left without a son. They will destroy my last hope and leave my husband without a son to keep his name alive.” 
and the Holy Spirit came down upon him in bodily form like a dove. And a voice came from heaven, “You are my own dear Son. I am pleased with you.” 
Then the Son of Man will appear, coming in the clouds with great power and glory.  
Come and save this grapevine that you planted, : this young vine you made grow so strong! 
Even after everything that has happened to us in punishment for our sins and wrongs, we know that you, our God, have punished us less than we deserve and have allowed us to survive. 
Everyone will say how this land, which was once a wilderness, has become like the Garden of Eden, and how the cities which were torn down, looted, and left in ruins, are now inhabited and fortified. 
I will stay on the hill of myrrh, : the hill of incense, : until the morning breezes blow : and the darkness disappears. 
He had forty sons and thirty grandsons, who rode on seventy donkeys. Abdon led Israel for eight years, 
Now, what does “he went up” mean? It means that first he came down to the lowest depths of the earth.  
Don't betray a friend for money. Don't betray a real friend for all the gold in the world. 
Samuel went up to Saul, who greeted him, saying, “The LORD bless you, Samuel! I have obeyed the LORD's command.” 
Then Elijah said, “I am the only prophet of the LORD still left, but there are 450 prophets of Baal. 
So the LORD let the commanders of the Assyrian army invade Judah. They captured Manasseh, stuck hooks in him, put him in chains, and took him to Babylon. 
Then Uzziah answered Judith, “Everything you have said makes good sense, and no one can argue with it. 
“You are mad!” they told her. But she insisted that it was true. So they answered, “It is his angel.” 
Don't go. The LORD is not with you, and your enemies will defeat you. 
eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, 
He has told us of the love that the Spirit has given you. 
And suppose that in the future the community fails to do everything that the LORD commanded through Moses. 
I have never feared what people would say; : I have never kept quiet or stayed indoors : because I feared their scorn. 
He came to his own country, but his own people did not receive him. 
“How can I do that?” Samuel asked. “If Saul hears about it, he will kill me!” : The LORD answered, “Take a calf with you and say that you are there to offer a sacrifice to the LORD. 
Beat him while he is still a child, and make him respect your authority. If you don't, he will be stubborn and disobedient and cause you nothing but sorrow. 
He placed his hands on them and then went away. 
After that, he threw the jawbone away. The place where this happened was named Ramath Lehi. 
Then the LORD sent poisonous snakes among the people, and many Israelites were bitten and died. 
so I have rejected it and will let a foreign ruler have it. He will give that tree what it deserves for its wickedness. 
After this I saw another angel coming down out of heaven. He had great authority, and his splendour brightened the whole earth. 
My days pass by without hope, : pass faster than a weaver's shuttle. 
The LORD replies, “You attack my people like enemies. Men return from battle, thinking they are safe at home, but there you are, waiting to steal the coats off their backs. 
All night I cried out with pain, : As if a lion were breaking my bones. : I thought that God was ending my life. 
“You replied, ‘Moses, we have sinned against the LORD. But now we will attack, just as the LORD our God commanded us.’ Then each one of you got ready to fight, thinking it would be easy to invade the hill country. 
When such people curse, it is enough to make your hair stand on end, and when they start arguing among themselves, all you can do is to stop your ears. 
I will send hunger and wild animals to kill your children, and will send sickness, violence, and war to kill you. I, the LORD, have spoken.”
Then Mary took half a litre of a very expensive perfume made of pure nard, poured it on Jesus' feet, and wiped them with her hair. The sweet smell of the perfume filled the whole house. 
After all, even a fool may be thought wise and intelligent if he stays quiet and keeps his mouth shut.
When it was time for the feast, he sent his servant to tell his guests, ‘Come, everything is ready!’  
He ordered his officials to speak privately to David and tell him, “The king is pleased with you and all his officials like you; now is a good time for you to marry his daughter.” 
At that, the king flew into a rage and ordered the execution of all the royal advisers in Babylon. 
Among the things we seized I saw a beautiful Babylonian cloak, about two kilogrammes of silver, and a bar of gold weighing over half a kilogramme. I wanted them so much that I took them. You will find them buried inside my tent, with the silver at the bottom.” 
“Listen,” he told them, “we are going up to Jerusalem, where the Son of Man will be handed over to the chief priests and the teachers of the Law. They will condemn him to death  
The LORD Almighty said, “In this land that is like a desert and where no people or animals live, there will once again be pastures where shepherds can take their sheep. 
Then death and the world of the dead were thrown into the lake of fire. (This lake of fire is the second death.) 
and he said to his officers, “Listen, men of Benjamin! Do you think that David will give fields and vineyards to all of you, and make you officers in his army? 
Make these people work harder and keep them busy, so that they won't have time to listen to a pack of lies.” 
Then he called his servants and said to them, ‘My wedding feast is ready, but the people I invited did not deserve it.  
“I destroyed some of you as I destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. Those of you who survived were like a burning stick saved from a fire. Still you did not come back to me,” says the LORD. 
What I meant was that you should not associate with a person who calls himself a believer but is immoral or greedy or worships idols or is a slanderer or a drunkard or a thief. Don't even sit down to eat with such a person. 
“If you love only the people who love you, why should you receive a blessing? Even sinners love those who love them!  
But there were some people who were ritually unclean because they had touched a corpse, and they were not able to keep the Passover on that day. They went to Moses and Aaron 
Now then, this is what I, the Sovereign LORD, say: I am the enemy of the king of Egypt. I am going to break both his arms — the good one and the one already broken — and the sword will fall from his hand. 
There is a secret truth, my brothers and sisters, which I want you to know, for it will keep you from thinking how wise you are. It is that the stubbornness of the people of Israel is not permanent, but will last only until the complete number of Gentiles comes to God. 
For the back of the Tent on the west, make six frames, 
He is the one who was with the people of Israel assembled in the desert; he was there with our ancestors and with the angel who spoke to him on Mount Sinai, and he received God's living messages to pass on to us. 
Since the beginning of the world nobody has ever heard of anyone giving sight to a person born blind. 
You may be satisfied now, but this time next year you will be in despair because there will be no grapes for you to gather. 
Noah built an altar to the LORD; he took one of each kind of ritually clean animal and bird, and burnt them whole as a sacrifice on the altar. 
So now the people of Israel went to Bethel and sat there in the presence of God until evening. Loudly and bitterly they mourned
And the Lord will act quickly. He will show no patience with wicked people. He will take vengeance by crushing the heathen. He will completely wipe out the merciless and the arrogant, and will destroy the authority of the wicked. 
They shall spread a red cloth over all this, put a fine leather cover over it, and then insert the carrying poles. 
As for the person who sins against his Creator, he deserves to be sick. 
For God's Kingdom is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of the righteousness, peace, and joy which the Holy Spirit gives. 
Those who are trying to kill me : will go down into the world of the dead. 
One of the teachers of the Law said to him, “Teacher, when you say this, you insult us too!” 
It was faith that made Joseph, when he was about to die, speak of the departure of the Israelites from Egypt, and leave instructions about what should be done with his body. 
“I have sinned by betraying an innocent man to death!” he said. : “What do we care about that?” they answered. “That is your business!” 
But those who proclaim God's message speak to people and give them help, encouragement, and comfort. 
I am writing to you, then, not because you do not know the truth; instead, it is because you do know it, and you also know that no lie ever comes from the truth. 
From his royal throne in Persia's capital city of Susa, King Xerxes ruled over 127 provinces, all the way from India to Ethiopia. 
It is a permanent sign between the people of Israel and me, because I, the LORD, made heaven and earth in six days, and on the seventh day I stopped working and rested.” 
Certainly not! We have died to sin — how then can we go on living in it? 
The Lord has commanded us to help the poor; don't refuse them the help they need. 
Joseph got in his chariot and went to Goshen to meet his father. When they met, Joseph threw his arms round his father's neck and cried for a long time. 
But he left in Judah some of the poorest people, who owned no property, and put them to work in the vineyards and fields. 
Any meat that still remains on the third day must be burnt. 
Early in the morning the brothers were sent on their way with their donkeys. 
When they had gone only a short distance from the city, Joseph said to the servant in charge of his house, “Hurry after those men. When you catch up with them, ask them, ‘Why have you paid back evil for good? 
O LORD, our Lord, : your greatness is seen in all the world! : Your praise reaches up to the heavens; 
Concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered together to be with him: I beg you, my brothers and sisters, 
they will give so much milk that he will have all he needs. Yes, the few survivors left in the land will have milk and honey to eat. 
Attack them tomorrow as they come up the pass at Ziz. You will meet them at the end of the valley that leads to the wild country near Jeruel. 
I know, LORD, that you are all-powerful; : that you can do everything you want. 
God sent his messenger, a man named John, 
Jesus answered, “The knowledge about the secrets of the Kingdom of heaven has been given to you, but not to them.  
Some people are too lazy to put food in their own mouths. 
then you will not have to feel regret or remorse, sir, for having killed without cause or for having taken your own revenge. And when the LORD has blessed you, sir, please do not forget me.” 
but now it has been revealed to us through the coming of our Saviour, Christ Jesus. He has ended the power of death and through the gospel has revealed immortal life. 
You tolerate anyone who orders you about or takes advantage of you or traps you or looks down on you or slaps you in the face. 
Once again Jonathan made David promise to love him, for Jonathan loved David as much as he loved himself. 
The rings to hold the poles for carrying the table are to be placed near the rim. 
When Pilate heard this, he asked, “Is this man a Galilean?” 
King Solomon decided to build a temple where the LORD would be worshipped, and also to build a palace for himself. 
I will fill the priests with the richest food : and satisfy all the needs of my people. : I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
They spat on him, and took the stick and hit him over the head. 
I confessed all I have done, and you answered me; : teach me your ways. 
So the LORD was angry with Israel, and he allowed King Hazael of Syria and his son Benhadad to defeat Israel time after time. 
In the same way instruct the older women to behave as women should who live a holy life. They must not be slanderers or slaves to wine. They must teach what is good, 
Abram went north out of Egypt to the southern part of Canaan with his wife and everything he owned, and Lot went with him. 
“But your descendants will confess their sins and the sins of their ancestors, who resisted me and rebelled against me, 
They are to say to them, ‘Our son is stubborn and rebellious and refuses to obey us; he wastes money and is a drunkard.’ 
Jahaz, Kedemoth, Mephaath, 
After questioning me, the Romans wanted to release me, because they found that I had done nothing for which I deserved to die. 
And the nations will know that the Israelites went into exile because of the sins which they committed against me. I turned away from them and let their enemies defeat them and kill them in battle. 
Make it your aim to do what is right, not what is evil, so that you may live. Then the LORD God Almighty really will be with you, as you claim he is. 
Jesus answered, “I am he, I who am talking with you.” 
David divided the Levites into three groups, according to their clans: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
I will give you treasures from dark, secret places; : then you will know that I am the LORD, : and that the God of Israel has called you by name. 
there are many enemies, but we are never without a friend; and though badly hurt at times, we are not destroyed. 
They put everyone there to death; no one was left alive, and the city was burnt. 
Until the time of John all the prophets and the Law of Moses spoke about the Kingdom;  
“Don't they know?” God asks. : “Are these evildoers ignorant? : They live by robbing my people, : and they never pray to me.” 
Joshua then turned back, captured Hazor and killed its king. (At that time Hazor was the most powerful of all those kingdoms.) 
Esther answered, “If it please Your Majesty, let the Jews in Susa do again tomorrow what they were allowed to do today. And order the bodies of Haman's ten sons to be hung from the gallows.” 
“When that happens, I will make the people of Israel strong and let you, Ezekiel, speak out where everyone can hear you, so that they will know that I am the LORD.”
Make twenty frames for the south side 
And so it was that the church throughout Judea, Galilee, and Samaria had a time of peace. Through the help of the Holy Spirit it was strengthened and grew in numbers, as it lived in reverence for the Lord. 
As soon as he was firmly in power, he executed the officials who had murdered his father. 
They showed greater loyalty to you : Than to parents, brothers, or children. : They obeyed your commands : And were faithful to your covenant. 
Never move an old boundary mark or take over land owned by orphans. 
They will come from Egypt, as swiftly as birds, and from Assyria, like doves. I will bring them to their homes again. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
Don't you remember how Abimelech son of Gideon was killed? It was at Thebez, where a woman threw a millstone down from the wall and killed him. Why, then, did you go so near the wall?’ If the king asks you this, tell him, ‘Your officer Uriah was also killed.’ ” 
Someone may be famous as a good speaker, but when he is wrong, a sensible person will detect it. 
Thousands and thousands : are in the Valley of Judgement. : It is there that the day of the LORD : will soon come. 
He will go ahead of the Lord, strong and mighty like the prophet Elijah. He will bring fathers and children together again; he will turn disobedient people back to the way of thinking of the righteous; he will get the Lord's people ready for him.” 
And when we came to this place, King Sihon of Heshbon and King Og of Bashan came out to fight against us. But we defeated them, 
The emperor asked, “What is it that you want?” : I prayed to the God of Heaven, 
To the LORD belong even the highest heavens; the earth is his also, and everything on it. 
“Find out where he is,” the king ordered, “and I will capture him.” : When he was told that Elisha was in Dothan, 
and made them rulers over all things.” : It says that God made them “rulers over all things”; this clearly includes everything. We do not, however, see human beings ruling over all things now. 
The priest will burn that part of the meal and oil that is to serve as a token, and also all the incense, as a food offering to the LORD.
Mary said, : “My heart praises the Lord; 
: Jozabad, Shimei, Kelaiah (also called Kelita), Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer
“Do not wear cloth made by weaving wool and linen together. 
So twelve men, representing Ishbosheth and the tribe of Benjamin, fought twelve of David's men. 
If anyone supposes he is God's messenger or has a spiritual gift, he must realize that what I am writing to you is the Lord's command. 
“You relied on the LORD,” they say. : “Why doesn't he save you? : If the LORD likes you, : why doesn't he help you?” 
At this the LORD became angry with Moses and said, “What about your brother Aaron, the Levite? I know that he can speak well. In fact, he is now coming to meet you and will be glad to see you. 
“Do not bear a grudge against anyone, but settle your differences with him, so that you will not commit a sin because of him.  
Their king and his officers will go into exile.”
The time was near for the Festival of Unleavened Bread, which is called the Passover. 
then the LORD your God will have mercy on you. He will bring you back from the nations where he has scattered you, and he will make you prosperous again. 
The descendants of Joktan were the people of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah, 
From the tribe of Gad they received four cities: Ramoth in Gilead, with its pasture lands (one of the cities of refuge), Mahanaim, 
He has punished me severely, : but he has not let me die. 
Moses heard all the people complaining as they stood about in groups at the entrances of their tents. He was distressed because the LORD was angry with them, 
And after they had done everything that the Scriptures say about him, they took him down from the cross and placed him in a tomb. 
He lies down under the thorn bushes, : and hides among the reeds in the swamp. 
“Do not try to stop him,” Jesus said to him and to the other disciples, “because whoever is not against you is for you.” 
The children will suffer for her sin. They will not be able to find a place in society or establish families. She herself will be brought before the assembly 
Your breasts are like twin deer, : like two gazelles. 
Now Rebecca had a brother named Laban, and he ran outside to go to the well where Abraham's servant was. 
and to Isaac I gave Jacob and Esau. I gave Esau the hill country of Edom as his possession, but your ancestor Jacob and his children went down to Egypt. 
That is why I write this while I am away from you; it is so that when I arrive I will not have to deal harshly with you in using the authority that the Lord has given me — authority to build you up, not to tear you down. 
He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, “Are you going to wash my feet, Lord?” 
Once again Judah will be the special possession of the LORD in his sacred land, and Jerusalem will be the city he loves most of all. 
I took the kingdom away from David's descendants and gave it to you. But you have not been like my servant David, who was completely loyal to me, obeyed my commands, and did only what I approve of. 
If I announce that an evil person is going to die but you do not warn him to change his ways so that he can save his life, then he will die, still a sinner, and I will hold you responsible for his death. 
Then Jesus took the five loaves and the two fish, looked up to heaven, and gave thanks to God. He broke the loaves and gave them to his disciples to distribute to the people. He also divided the two fish among them all. 
Even my friends laugh at me now; : they laugh, although I am righteous and blameless; : but there was a time when God answered my prayers. 
Don't ask advice of anyone who doesn't trust you, and don't give advice to anyone who is jealous of you. 
The rich and the poor will die in this land, but no one will bury them or mourn for them. No one will gash himself or shave his head to show his grief. 
Then the mountains will melt under him : like wax in a fire; : they will pour down into the valleys : like water pouring down a hill. 
The silver from the census of the community weighed 3.43 tonnes, weighed according to the official standard. 
All the people of the town — men, women, and children alike — gathered round Uzziah and the town officials and shouted in protest, 
I am the one who has chosen your relatives the Levites from among the Israelites as a gift to you. They are dedicated to me, so that they can carry out their duties in the Tent. 
Whenever a piece of pottery turned out imperfect, he would take the clay and make it into something else. 
I wrote a short letter to the church; but Diotrephes, who likes to be their leader, will not pay any attention to what I say. 
Death is the destiny of all the wicked, : of all those who reject God. 
At night when people are asleep, : God speaks in dreams and visions. 
You have to whip a horse, you have to bridle a donkey, and you have to beat a fool. 
“Three times a year all your men must come to worship me, the LORD, the God of Israel. 
So she changed from the widow's clothes she had been wearing, covered her face with a veil, and sat down at the entrance to Enaim, a town on the road to Timnah. As she well knew, Judah's youngest son Shelah had now grown up, and yet she had not been given to him in marriage. 
You should not guarantee anyone else's loan to an extent that you cannot afford. You must be prepared to pay any such guarantee. 
You will remember me as sweeter than honey, : better than honey from the comb. 
The LORD said, “None of the surrounding nations that treated Israel with scorn will ever again be like thorns and briars to hurt Israel. And they will know that I am the Sovereign LORD.” 
We did not listen to you, O LORD our God, when you told us to live according to the laws which you gave us through your servants the prophets. 
But when they recognized that he was a Jew, they all shouted together the same thing for two hours: “Great is Artemis of Ephesus!” 
“Make upright frames for the Tent out of acacia wood. 
You know how we had already been ill-treated and insulted in Philippi before we came to you in Thessalonica. And even though there was much opposition, our God gave us courage to tell you the Good News that comes from him. 
He sinned against the LORD and was not true to him as his father David had been. 
or who steal or are greedy or are drunkards or who slander others or are thieves — none of these will possess God's Kingdom. 
Nor is it on the other side of the ocean. You do not have to ask, ‘Who will go across the ocean and bring it to us, so that we may hear it and obey it?’ 
A large crowd of sick people were lying in the porches — the blind, the lame, and the paralysed.  
Those who have put their trust in God will come to understand the truth of his ways. Those who have been faithful will live with him in his love, for he is kind and merciful to the ones whom he has chosen. 
She sits at the door of her house or on a seat in the highest part of the town, 
and have a reputation for good deeds: a woman who brought up her children well, received strangers in her home, performed humble duties for fellow-Christians, helped people in trouble, and devoted herself to doing good. 
Then the Roman soldiers with their commanding officer and the Jewish guards arrested Jesus, bound him, 
Jesus took the five loaves and two fish, looked up to heaven, thanked God for them, broke them, and gave them to the disciples to distribute to the people. 
A person who fears the Lord can make real friendships, because he will treat his friends as he does himself. 
“Take the breast of this ram and dedicate it to me as a special gift. This part of the animal will be yours. 
They were assigned responsibility for the frames for the Tent, its bars, posts, bases, and all its fittings. They were responsible for all the service connected with these items. 
You, O LORD, chose our protector; : you, the Holy God of Israel, gave us our king. 
Offer these in addition to the regular morning burnt offering. 
“Do not enter a house where people are feasting. Do not sit down with them to eat and drink. 
A good person's words will benefit many people, but you can kill yourself with stupidity. 
I will eagerly obey your commands, : because you will give me more understanding. 
Peter declared, “Never at any time will you wash my feet!” :   “If I do not wash your feet,” Jesus answered, “you will no longer be my disciple.” 
You are looking at the outward appearance of things. Is there someone there who reckons himself or herself to belong to Christ? Well, let them think again about themselves, because we belong to Christ just as much as they do. 
They will hear the hoof beats of horses, : the clatter of chariots, : the rumble of wheels. : Parents will not turn back for their children; : their hands will hang limp at their sides. 
But Jesus lives on for ever, and his work as priest does not pass on to someone else. 
Such people will stumble and fall, : but we will rise and stand firm. 
Then Nathan went to Bathsheba, Solomon's mother, and asked her, “Haven't you heard that Haggith's son Adonijah has made himself king? And King David doesn't know anything about it! 
He created me in eternity, before time began, : and I will exist for all eternity to come. 
The enclosure is to be 44 metres long, 22 metres wide, and 2.2 metres high. The curtains are to be made of fine linen and the bases of bronze. 
Follow the practices and the laws that I give you; you will save your life by doing so. I am the LORD.” 
And the flesh of living beings is not all the same kind of flesh; human beings have one kind of flesh, animals another, birds another, and fish another. 
Make fifty bronze hooks and put them in the loops to join the two sets so as to form one cover. 
If they had known my secret thoughts, then they could have proclaimed my message to my people and could have made them give up the evil lives they live and the wicked things they do. 
all their fine robes, gowns, cloaks, and purses; 
Jesus knew their thoughts and said to them, “Why do you think such things?  
But if the slave does not die for a day or two, the master is not to be punished. The loss of his property is punishment enough. 
Later, when a famine struck all the land of Canaan, these Israelites, as they were later called, went down to Egypt and stayed there as long as there was enough food. While they were there, they became a large nation with so many people that they could not be counted. 
God shines from Zion, : the city perfect in its beauty. 
and spoke to them there. He said, “You Levites are to consecrate yourselves and purify the Temple of the LORD, the God of your ancestors. Remove from the Temple everything that defiles it. 
He went to King David and said, “Your Majesty, I am having my sheep sheared. Will you and your officials come and take part in the festivities?” 
“For it is written in the book of Psalms: : ‘May his house become empty; : may no one live in it.’ : It is also written: : ‘May someone else take his place of service.’ 
It went as far as the border of Ammon and included all the cities that had been ruled by the Amorite king Sihon, who had ruled at Heshbon. 
“Why do you call me good?” Jesus asked him. “No one is good except God alone.  
They brought the Box and put it in its place in the Tent that David had set up for it. Then he offered sacrifices and fellowship offerings to the LORD. 
The second one was born holding on tightly to the heel of Esau, so he was named Jacob. Isaac was sixty years old when they were born. 
and rededicate to the LORD their time as Nazirites. The previous period of time doesn't count, because their consecrated hair was defiled. As a repayment offering they shall bring a one-year-old lamb. 
and with each lamb, one kilogramme. These burnt offerings are food offerings, a smell pleasing to the LORD. 
She spins her own thread and weaves her own cloth. 
They answered just as Jesus had told them, and the bystanders let them go. 
For I am the LORD your God, : the holy God of Israel, who saves you. : I will give up Egypt to set you free; : I will give up Ethiopia and Seba. 
Have you been to the springs in the depths of the sea? : Have you walked on the floor of the ocean? 
I will destroy the magic charms you use and leave you without any fortune tellers. 
a wooden altar. It was 1.5 metres high and one metre wide. Its cornerposts, its base, and its sides were all made of wood. The man said to me, “This is the table which stands in the presence of the LORD.” 
He rescued us from the power of darkness and brought us safe into the kingdom of his dear Son, 
At the pagan places of worship, on the hills, and under every shady tree, Ahaz offered sacrifices and burnt incense. 
from hearing the sneers and insults : of my enemies and those who hate me. 
Anyone who eats it will be guilty of treating as ordinary what is dedicated to me, and he will no longer be considered one of my people. 
There was sin in the world before the Law was given; but where there is no law, no account is kept of sins. 
and he rode off and found the prophet's body lying on the road, with the donkey and the lion still standing by it. The lion had not eaten the body or attacked the donkey. 
Cry, you leaders, you shepherds of my people, cry out loud! Mourn and roll in the dust. The time has come for you to be slaughtered, and you will be butchered like rams.  
So Balaam went with Balak to the town of Huzoth, 
Then Isaiah told the king's attendants to put on his boil a paste made of figs, and he would get well.  
This is the message which the LORD gave Hosea son of Beeri during the time that Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah were kings of Judah, and Jeroboam son of Jehoash was king of Israel. 
Who can save us from those powerful gods? They are the gods who slaughtered the Egyptians in the desert! 
Jacob saw Esau coming with his 400 men, so he divided the children among Leah, Rachel, and the two concubines. 
Whoever tries to save his own life will lose it; whoever loses his life will save it.  
That worthless shepherd is doomed! He has abandoned his flock. War will totally destroy his power. His arm will wither, and his right eye will go blind.”
A fool doing some stupid thing a second time is like a dog going back to its vomit. 
Then war broke out in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon, who fought back with his angels; 
“Sir, if these people are now sinning against their god, even unknowingly, and if we can be sure that they are guilty of some offence, we can successfully attack them. 
Those who rush to other gods : bring many troubles on themselves. : I will not take part in their sacrifices; : I will not worship their gods. 
Jesus said to her, “Didn't I tell you that you would see God's glory if you believed?”  
And now, Lord, take notice of the threats they have made, and allow us, your servants, to speak your message with all boldness. 
And God, who sees into our hearts, knows what the thought of the Spirit is; because the Spirit pleads with God on behalf of his people and in accordance with his will. 
If such matters come up, are you going to take them to be settled by people who have no standing in the church? 
Why, then, do you look at the speck in your brother's eye, and pay no attention to the log in your own eye?  
He blessed his people, and they had many children; : he kept their herds of cattle from decreasing. 
A slave who is constantly beaten will never be free of bruises; someone who is always taking an oath by the Holy Name will never be free of sin. 
and Joseph said, “What have you done? Didn't you know that a man in my position could find you out by practising divination?” 
These are the responsibilities of the Gershon clan in the Tent; they shall carry them out under the direction of Ithamar son of Aaron the priest. 
Ramah and Geba — 621 
They were filled with craving in the desert : and put God to the test; 
Suddenly Jesus met them and said, “Peace be with you.” They came up to him, took hold of his feet, and worshipped him. 
“Simon, Simon! Listen! Satan has received permission to test all of you, to separate the good from the bad, as a farmer separates the wheat from the chaff.  
and so reveal their secret thoughts. And sorrow, like a sharp sword, will break your own heart.” 
Watch yourself and watch your teaching. Keep on doing these things, because if you do, you will save both yourself and those who hear you.
You yourself are a sinner, and if you won't forgive another person, you have no right to pray that the Lord will forgive your sins. 
The Law overflows with Wisdom like the River Pishon, like the Tigris at fruit-picking time. 
Baruch answered, “Jeremiah dictated every word of it to me, and I wrote it down in ink on this scroll.” 
When the people of Israel left Egypt, : when Jacob's descendants left that foreign land, 
Naomi had a relative named Boaz, a rich and influential man who belonged to the family of her husband Elimelech. 
Children, listen to me; I am your father. Do what I tell you and you will be safe, 
Divide the land among the various tribes and clans by drawing lots, giving a large piece of property to a large clan and a small one to a small clan. 
until the Canaanite borders reached from Sidon southwards to Gerar near Gaza, and eastwards to Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboiim near Lasha. 
Let your leaders go to Caesarea with me and accuse the man if he has done anything wrong.” 
They are to own no land, as the other tribes do; their share is the privilege of being the LORD's priests, as the LORD has promised. 
The LORD said, “Mortal man, speak to the mountains of Israel and tell them to listen to the message which I, 
“What does it look like?” he asked. : “It's an old man coming up,” she answered. “He is wearing a cloak.” : Then Saul knew that it was Samuel, and he bowed to the ground in respect. 
I took the little scroll from his hand and ate it, and it tasted sweet as honey in my mouth. But after I swallowed it, it turned sour in my stomach. 
If it is the Lord's will, I hope that I will be able to send Timothy to you soon, so that I may be encouraged by news about you. 
Whenever Moses went out there, the people would stand at the door of their tents and watch Moses until he entered it. 
So both the groups that were giving thanks to God reached the temple area. : In addition to the leaders who were with me, 
“No!” she replied. “It was given to me as a gift in addition to what I got for the cloth.” But I didn't believe her, and I blushed for shame for what she had done. I ordered her to return the goat to its owners, but she had the last word. “Now I see what you are really like!” she shouted. “Where is all that concern of yours for others? What about all those good deeds you used to do?”
You refuse to let me correct you; : you reject my commands. 
The LORD gave Moses the following instructions. When it is time to break camp, Aaron and his sons shall enter the Tent, take down the curtain in front of the Covenant Box, and cover the Box with it. 
He called together all the chief priests and the teachers of the Law and asked them, “Where will the Messiah be born?” 
The descendants of Jether were Jephunneh, Pispa, and Ara, 
But if any prophet dares to speak a message in my name when I did not command him to do so, he must die for it, and so must any prophet who speaks in the name of other gods.’ 
May his children become orphans, : and his wife a widow! 
the priest shall examine him. If the hairs in the spot have turned white and it appears deeper than the surrounding skin, it is a dreaded skin disease that has started in the burn, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean. 
The border then went to the slope on the south side of Luz (also called Bethel), then down to Ataroth Addar, on the mountain south of Lower Beth Horon. 
The officiating priest shall burn all this on the altar as a food offering to the LORD. 
Everything that God has created is good; nothing is to be rejected, but everything is to be received with a prayer of thanks, 
And so I tell you that people can be forgiven any sin and any evil thing they say;  but whoever says evil things against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.  
Listen! I, Paul, tell you that if you allow yourselves to be circumcised, it means that Christ is of no use to you at all. 
God spoke to him in a vision at night and called, “Jacob, Jacob!” : “Yes, here I am,” he answered. 
The God I serve will reject his people, because they have not listened to him. They will become wanderers among the nations.
“The Kingdom of heaven is like this. Once there was a man who went out early in the morning to hire some men to work in his vineyard.  
“Now my time has come to die. Every one of you knows in his heart and soul that the LORD your God has given you all the good things that he promised. Every promise he made has been kept; not one has failed. 
The towns of Israel stood abandoned, Deborah; : they stood empty until you came, : came like a mother for Israel. 
But as Paul went on discussing about goodness, self-control, and the coming Day of Judgement, Felix was afraid and said, “You may leave now. I will call you again when I get the chance.” 
If he knocks out a tooth, he is to free the slave as payment for the tooth. 
Look up at the sky! : Who created the stars you see? : The one who leads them out like an army, : he knows how many there are : and calls each one by name! : His power is so great — : not one of them is ever missing! 
Like a bow bent by the hands of the Most High, : it spans the horizon in a circle of glory. 
All those things are gone now; they have disappeared like a shadow, like something you hear and then forget. 
While you were looking at it, a great stone broke loose from a cliff without anyone touching it, struck the iron and clay feet of the statue, and shattered them. 
“Go and stand in the Temple, and tell the people all about this new life.” 
But the water in the marshes and ponds along the shore will not be made fresh. They will remain there as a source of salt. 
You must not eat any of the following birds: eagles, owls, hawks, falcons; crows; herons, pelicans, and bats. 
There were 690 families of the tribe of Judah who lived in Jerusalem. : The descendants of Judah's son Perez had as their leader Uthai, the son of Ammihud and grandson of Omri. His other ancestors included Imri and Bani. : The descendants of Judah's son Shelah had as their leader Asaiah, who was the head of his family. : The descendants of Judah's son Zerah had Jeuel as their leader. 
Suddenly a human hand appeared and began writing on the plaster wall of the palace, where the light from the lamps was shining most brightly. And the king saw the hand as it was writing. 
Then the king sent for Shimei and said to him, “Build a house for yourself here in Jerusalem. Live in it and don't leave the city. 
King Zedekiah's personal attendant was Seraiah, the son of Neriah and grandson of Mahseiah. In the fourth year that Zedekiah was king of Judah, Seraiah was going to Babylonia with him, and I gave him some instructions. 
Shimei son of Ela: the territory of Benjamin 
When Christ went through the tent and entered once and for all into the Most Holy Place, he did not take the blood of goats and bulls to offer as a sacrifice; rather, he took his own blood and obtained eternal salvation for us. 
So I will boast about this man — but I will not boast about myself, except the things that show how weak I am. 
Babylonia, you are like a mountain that destroys the whole world, but I, the LORD, am your enemy. I will take hold of you, level you to the ground, and leave you in ashes. 
The sick man answered, “Sir, I have no one here to put me in the pool when the water is stirred up; while I am trying to get in, somebody else gets there first.” 
Jesus was angry as he looked round at them, but at the same time he felt sorry for them, because they were so stubborn and wrong. Then he said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” He stretched it out, and it became well again. 
There is no cure for the troubles that arrogant people have; wickedness has taken deep root in them. 
Then the LORD told me to say to the people, “Listen! I, the LORD, am giving you a choice between the way that leads to life and the way that leads to death. 
They grow stronger as they go; : they will see the God of gods on Zion. 
You should not lend anything to someone more powerful than you. If you do, you might as well consider it lost. 
“Did Joab put you up to this?” he asked her. : She answered, “I swear by all that is sacred, Your Majesty, that there is no way to avoid answering your question. It was indeed your officer Joab who told me what to do and what to say. 
And I was told that the number of those who were marked with God's seal on their foreheads was 144,000. They were from the twelve tribes of Israel, 
No one who passes by will say, : “May the LORD bless you! : We bless you in the name of the LORD.”
Your mother was like a grapevine : planted near a stream. : Because there was plenty of water, : the vine was covered with leaves and fruit. 
When Aaron has finished performing the ritual to purify the Most Holy Place, the rest of the Tent of the LORD's presence, and the altar, he shall present to the LORD the live goat chosen for Azazel.  
This started an angry argument among them. “How can this man give us his flesh to eat?” they asked. 
and anyone who made the vow may not substitute another animal for it. If he does, both animals belong to the LORD. 
Dishan was the ancestor of the clans of Uz and Aran. 
Whoever makes himself great will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be made great. 
So King Saul sent for the priest Ahimelech and all his relatives, who were also priests in Nob, and they came to him. 
That is why even the first covenant came into effect only with the use of blood. 
They are not like other people; they have strange ways. 
When he's with you, his talk is so nice! He compliments you on every word you say. But behind your back it's a different story; he will take what you have said and turn it against you. 
He shall do the same thing with this bull as he does with the bull for the sin offering, and in this way he shall make the sacrifice for the people's sin, and they will be forgiven. 
The Spirit and the Bride say, “Come!” : Everyone who hears this must also say, “Come!” : Come, whoever is thirsty; accept the water of life as a gift, whoever wants it. 
Jesus took the twelve disciples aside and said to them, “Listen! We are going to Jerusalem where everything the prophets wrote about the Son of Man will come true.  
Edom, Moab, Ammon, Philistia, and Amalek — as well as part of the loot he had taken from Hadadezer. 
In the same way you husbands must live with your wives with the proper understanding that they are weaker than you. Treat them with respect, because they also will receive, together with you, God's gift of life. Do this so that nothing will interfere with your prayers. 
Then the owner of the vineyard said, ‘What shall I do? I will send my own dear son; surely they will respect him!’  
Even before the world was made, God had already chosen us to be his through our union with Christ, so that we would be holy and without fault before him. : Because of his love 
I tell you, then, that you will be able to enter the Kingdom of heaven only if you are more faithful than the teachers of the Law and the Pharisees in doing what God requires. 
He says to himself, “Now I can finally sit back and enjoy what I have worked for.” But he has no idea how long it will be before he must die and leave his wealth to others. 
I sent scorching winds and hail to ruin everything you tried to grow, but still you did not repent. 
The people who live in the cities of Israel will go out and collect the abandoned weapons for firewood. They will build fires with the shields, bows, arrows, spears, and clubs, and will have enough to last for seven years. 
But Peter made him rise. “Stand up,” he said; “I myself am only a man.” 
The LORD rewards me because I do what is right; : he blesses me because I am innocent. 
Wise people will gain an honourable reputation, but stupid people will only add to their own disgrace.
by his command they were fixed in their places for ever, : and they cannot disobey. 
Set up a tombstone for Moab; : it will soon be destroyed. : Its towns will be left in ruins, : and no one will live there again.” 
My people have been punished even more than the inhabitants of Sodom, : which met with a sudden downfall at the hands of God. 
David thought, “The Temple that my son Solomon is to build must be splendid and world-famous. But he is young and inexperienced, so I must make preparations for it.” So David got large amounts of the materials ready before he died. 
The time came again for Elkanah and his family to go to Shiloh and offer to the LORD the yearly sacrifice and the special sacrifice he had promised. 
When the LORD saw that Leah was loved less than Rachel, he made it possible for her to have children, but Rachel remained childless. 
So the king of Egypt turned against them. He took advantage of them and put them to work making bricks. He oppressed them and made them slaves. 
I put a terrifying angel there to guard you. You lived on my holy mountain and walked among sparkling gems. 
They took away everything that was made of gold or silver: the small bowls, the pans used for carrying live coals, the bowls for holding the blood from the sacrifices, the ash containers, the lampstands, the bowls used for incense, and the bowls used for pouring out offerings of wine. 
“So he called in all the people who were in debt to his master. He asked the first one, ‘How much do you owe my master?’  
You welcome the guests and pour the drinks, and nobody thanks you. Instead, people humiliate you by saying things like
But the Philistines caught up with them and killed three of Saul's sons, Jonathan, Abinadab, and Malchishua. 
In the vision a banquet is ready; rugs are spread for the guests to sit on. They are eating and drinking. Suddenly the command rings out: “Officers! Prepare your shields!” 
Shimei started throwing stones at David and his officials, even though David was surrounded by his men and his bodyguard. 
My inner being delights in the law of God. 
The man's servants came to him and said, ‘Sir, it was good seed you sowed in your field; where did the weeds come from?’  
“What do you think about the Messiah? Whose descendant is he?” : “He is David's descendant,” they answered. 
But you did not abandon them there in the desert, : for your mercy is great. : You did not take away the cloud or the fire : that showed them the path by day and night. 
Their bodies used to be young and vigorous, : but soon they will turn to dust. 
Early next morning, as they walked along the road, they saw the fig tree. It was dead all the way down to its roots. 
What I write is true. God knows that I am not lying! 
As for the donkeys that were lost three days ago, don't worry about them; they have already been found. But who is it that the people of Israel want so much? It is you — you and your father's family.” 
Then he walked over and touched the coffin, and the men carrying it stopped. Jesus said, “Young man! Get up, I tell you!”  
God said to me, “Mortal man, look towards the north.” I looked, and there near the altar by the entrance of the gateway I saw the idol that was an outrage to God. 
The Nile will be so full of frogs that they will leave it and go into your palace, your bedroom, your bed, the houses of your officials and your people, and even into your ovens and baking pans. 
Then Joseph asked his people to make a vow. “Promise me,” he said, “that when God leads you to that land, you will take my body with you.” 
I will give you a new heart and a new mind. I will take away your stubborn heart of stone and give you an obedient heart. 
David ruled over all Israel and made sure that his people were always treated fairly and justly. 
This man is only afraid of other people. He doesn't realize that the eyes of the Lord are 10,000 times brighter than the sun, that he sees everything we do, even when we try to hide it. 
So Jesus said to her, “Because of that answer, go back home, where you will find that the demon has gone out of your daughter!” 
When she arrived home, her mother-in-law asked her, “How did you get on, my daughter?” : Ruth told her everything that Boaz had done for her. 
King David asked him, “What are you going to do with all that?” : Ziba answered, “The donkeys are for Your Majesty's family to ride, the bread and the fruit are for the men to eat, and the wine is for them to drink when they get tired in the wilderness.” 
He did this so that they would look for him, and perhaps find him as they felt about for him. Yet God is actually not far from any one of us; 
The land will become a desert. In the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem I will put an end to the sounds of joy and gladness and to the happy sounds of wedding feasts.
In all, Rehoboam had eighteen wives and sixty concubines, and he fathered 28 sons and sixty daughters. Of all his wives and concubines he loved Maacah best, 
Kill them! Be the first to stone them, and then let everyone else stone them too. 
you will answer, ‘It is the sacrifice of Passover to honour the LORD, because he passed over the houses of the Israelites in Egypt. He killed the Egyptians, but spared us.’ ” : The Israelites knelt down and worshipped. 
Praise the LORD, you strong and mighty angels, : who obey his commands, : who listen to what he says. 
and said, “Give this power to me too, so that anyone I place my hands on will receive the Holy Spirit.” 
For Christ's sake we are fools; but you are wise in union with Christ! We are weak, but you are strong! We are despised, but you are honoured! 
“The dead will stare and gape at you. They will ask, ‘Is this the man who shook the earth and made kingdoms tremble? 
Israel, you have seen so much, : but what has it meant to you? : You have ears to hear with, : but what have you really heard?” 
John answered by quoting the prophet Isaiah: : “I am ‘the voice of someone shouting in the desert: : Make a straight path for the Lord to travel!’ ” 
Once, when there was a famine throughout the land, Elisha returned to Gilgal. While he was teaching a group of prophets, he told his servant to put a big pot on the fire and make some stew for them. 
Good is the opposite of evil, life is the opposite of death, and sin is the opposite of devotion to the Lord. 
Jair died and was buried at Kamon. 
These are the descendants of Noah's sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. These three had sons after the flood. 
These are the words of Amos, a shepherd from the town of Tekoa. Two years before the earthquake, when Uzziah was king of Judah and Jeroboam son of Jehoash was king of Israel, God revealed to Amos all these things about Israel. 
When the LORD saw that Moses was coming closer, he called to him from the middle of the bush and said, “Moses! Moses!” : He answered, “Yes, here I am.” 
And he sent a messenger to get Elisha. : Meanwhile, Elisha was at home with some elders who were visiting him. Before the king's messenger arrived, Elisha said to the elders, “That murderer is sending someone to kill me! Now, when he gets here, shut the door and don't let him come in. The king himself will be just behind him.” 
Esau learnt that Isaac had blessed Jacob and sent him away to Mesopotamia to find a wife. He also learnt that when Isaac blessed him, he commanded him not to marry a Canaanite woman. 
So I solemnly declare to the family of Eli that no sacrifice or offering will ever be able to remove the consequences of this terrible sin.” 
Praise the LORD! : With all my heart I will thank the LORD : in the assembly of his people. 
Then a cloud appeared and covered them with its shadow, and a voice came from the cloud, “This is my own dear Son — listen to him!” 
all of us from the king on his splendid throne wearing royal robes and a crown, to the humblest person dressed in sacking and living in poverty. 
We have to live our lives in darkness and grief, worried, angry, and sick. 
Ignorant people get what their foolishness deserves, but the clever are rewarded with knowledge. 
And to all these qualities add love, which binds all things together in perfect unity. 
In the evening offer the second lamb in the same way as the morning offering, together with its wine offering. It also is a food offering, a smell pleasing to the LORD. 
Before the years of famine came, Joseph had two sons by Asenath. 
They shall also offer a basket of bread made without yeast: thick loaves made of flour mixed with olive oil and biscuits brushed with olive oil, and in addition the required offerings of corn and wine. 
After a long debate Peter stood up and said, “My brothers and sisters, you know that a long time ago God chose me from among you to preach the Good News to the Gentiles, so that they could hear and believe. 
“Israel is a nation without sense; : they have no wisdom at all. 
Many people were shocked when they saw him; : he was so disfigured that he hardly looked human. 
The explanation of your teachings gives light : and brings wisdom to the ignorant. 
The lowest section of the altar, from the top of the base, was one metre high. The next section was set back from the edge fifty centimetres all round, and was two metres high. The section after that was also set back from the edge fifty centimetres all round. 
until I put your enemies as a footstool under your feet.’ 
He built pagan altars in the Temple, the place that the LORD had said was where he should be worshipped for ever. 
The Sovereign LORD Almighty told me to go to Shebna, the manager of the royal household, and say to him, 
“Now, what do you think? There was once a man who had two sons. He went to the elder one and said, ‘Son, go and work in the vineyard today.’  
Why was I born? : Was it only to have trouble and sorrow, : to end my life in disgrace?
Your beauty will make the king desire you; : he is your master, so you must obey him. 
“May no rain or dew fall on Gilboa's hills; : may its fields be always barren! : For the shields of the brave lie there in disgrace; : the shield of Saul is no longer polished with oil. 
King Solomon sent for a man named Huram, a craftsman living in the city of Tyre, who was skilled in bronze work. 
Remember your promise to me, your servant; : it has given me hope. 
I strike them down, and they cannot rise; : they lie defeated before me. 
Then he sent an officer with fifty men to get Elijah. The officer found him sitting on a hill and said to him, “Man of God, the king orders you to come down.” 
and among them there was what looked like a human being, wearing a robe that reached to his feet, and a gold belt round his chest. 
Nun, Joshua. 
Who is this great king? : The triumphant LORD — he is the great king!
In addition to Hebron (one of the cities of refuge), the following cities were assigned to the descendants of Aaron the priest: Libnah, 
Their next camp was at Etham on the edge of the desert. 
And Elisha continued, “But this is an easy thing for the LORD to do; he will also give you victory over the Moabites. 
The Amorites continued to live at Aijalon, Shaalbim, and Mount Heres, but the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh kept them under their rule and forced them to work for them. 
Dear friends in Corinth! We have spoken frankly to you; we have opened our hearts wide. 
The leaders of the Levite families went to Eleazar the priest, Joshua son of Nun, and to the heads of the families of all the tribes of Israel. 
And after I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to myself, so that you will be where I am.  
The priest shall fix a price for it, according to its good or bad qualities, and the price will be final. 
Last of all he sent his son to them. ‘Surely they will respect my son,’ he said.  
They are worthless and should be despised; : they will be destroyed when the LORD comes to deal with them. 
Poor people can be honoured for their good sense, and rich people can be honoured for their wealth. 
But those who look closely into the perfect law that sets people free, who keep on paying attention to it and do not simply listen and then forget it, but put it into practice — they will be blessed by God in what they do. 
You will trample down lions and snakes, : fierce lions and poisonous snakes. 
And if someone asks you why you are doing that, tell him that the Master  needs it and will send it back at once.” 
I only know that in every city the Holy Spirit has warned me that prison and troubles wait for me. 
encourage you and strengthen you always to do and say what is good.
My child, there is something else to watch out for. There is no end to the writing of books, and too much study will wear you out. 
I tell you that there is something here greater than the Temple.  
Then I asked, “What crime have I committed against you or your officials or this people, to make you put me in prison? 
Praise the LORD, all people on earth, : praise his glory and might. 
The chief priests and the teachers of the Law became angry when they saw the wonderful things he was doing and the children shouting in the Temple, “Praise to David's Son!” 
Esau said, “All right! I am about to die; what good will my rights do me then?” 
Ashhur and Helah had three sons: Zereth, Izhar, and Ethnan. 
But Achish trusted David and said to himself, “He is hated so much by his own people the Israelites that he will have to serve me all his life.”
They are deceiving you and will cause you to be taken far away from your country. I will drive you out, and you will be destroyed. 
Some of them sleep with their father's wife. Some force women to have intercourse with them during their period. 
“The servant went back and told all this to his master. The master was furious and said to his servant, ‘Hurry out to the streets and alleys of the town, and bring back the poor, the crippled, the blind, and the lame.’  
Solomon consecrated the central part of the courtyard, the area in front of the Temple, and then offered there the sacrifices burnt whole, the grain offerings, and the fat from the fellowship offerings. He did this because the bronze altar which he had made was too small for all these offerings. 
Great caravans of camels will come, from Midian and Ephah. : They will come from Sheba, bringing gold and incense. : People will tell the good news of what the LORD has done! 
This shows that the LORD is just, : that there is no wrong in my protector.
God did what Manoah asked, and his angel came back to the woman while she was sitting in the fields. Her husband Manoah was not with her, 
Please accept this gift which I have brought for you; God has been kind to me and given me everything I need.” Jacob kept on urging him until he accepted. 
Then they drew lots to choose between the two men, and the one chosen was Matthias, who was added to the group of eleven apostles.
When the LORD spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt, 
For eighteen years they oppressed and persecuted all the Israelites who lived in Amorite country east of the River Jordan in Gilead. 
You use the winds as your messengers : and flashes of lightning as your servants. 
Not long afterwards Jesus came from Nazareth in the province of Galilee, and was baptized by John in the Jordan. 
The Sovereign LORD said, “But now I will be merciful to Jacob's descendants, the people of Israel, and make them prosperous again. I will protect my holy name. 
These people lived during the time of Joiakim, the son of Joshua and grandson of Jehozadak, and the time of Nehemiah the governor, and the time of Ezra, the priest who was a scholar of the Law. 
“I assure you that for those who declare publicly that they belong to me, the Son of Man will do the same before the angels of God.  
When he saw Peter and John going in, he begged them to give him something. 
which you have prepared in the presence of all peoples
Because of my anger no one will live in Babylon; it will be left in ruins, and all who pass by will be shocked and amazed. 
Now, remove the 32 rulers from their commands and replace them with field commanders. 
They spoke against God and said, : “Can God supply food in the desert? 
On the king's orders they prepared storerooms in the Temple area 
There is only one way for you to be free from your vow: if you go to my relatives and they refuse you, then you will be free.’ 
My people have drunk a bitter cup of punishment : on my sacred hill. : But all the surrounding nations will drink : a still more bitter cup of punishment; : they will drink it all and vanish away. 
People who worship them lose control of themselves in ecstasy, or pass off lies as prophecies, or live wickedly, or break their word without hesitation. 
The LORD has promised that a nation will swoop down on Moab like an eagle with its outspread wings, 
“All this you see — the time will come when not a single stone here will be left in its place; every one will be thrown down.” 
When did any of the gods of all those countries ever save their country from us? Then what makes you think that your god can save you? 
And goodness is the harvest that is produced from the seeds the peacemakers plant in peace.
“Never forget how you made the LORD your God angry in the desert. From the day that you left Egypt until the day you arrived here, you have rebelled against him. 
And so they wear pride like a necklace : and violence like a robe; 
the same laws and regulations apply to you and to them. 
“Do not go for advice to people who consult the spirits of the dead. If you do, you will be ritually unclean. I am the LORD your God. 
he looked up and saw three men standing there. As soon as he saw them, he ran out to meet them. Bowing down with his face touching the ground, 
Hiram went to see them, and he did not like them. 
You become the friend of every thief you see : and you associate with adulterers. 
The land has produced its harvest; : God, our God, has blessed us. 
Next, those under the banner of the division led by the tribe of Ephraim would start out, company by company, with Elishama son of Ammihud in command. 
If you don't, you will not be able to finish the tower after laying the foundation; and all who see what happened will laugh at you.  
We say this because we hear that there are some people among you who live lazy lives and who do nothing except meddle in other people's business. 
But Jacob went to Sukkoth, where he built a house for himself and shelters for his livestock. That is why the place was named Sukkoth. 
When I come home to Wisdom, I will find contentment because there is no conflict or pain in living with her, only happiness and joy.” 
Simeon had six sons: Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a Canaanite woman; they were the ancestors of the clans that bear their names. 
If a man cannot afford a sheep or a goat, he shall bring to the LORD as the payment for his sin two doves or two pigeons, one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering. 
Paul stood up in front of the city council and said, “I see that in every way you Athenians are very religious. 
We dare not go to the countryside or walk on the roads, because our enemies are armed and terror is all round us.” 
Nineveh, you are under attack! : The power that will shatter you has come. : Prepare the defences! : Guard the road! : Prepare for battle! 
Yet some of you do not believe.” (Jesus knew from the very beginning who were the ones that would not believe and which one would betray him.) 
Those who say that they are in the light, yet hate their brothers and sisters, are in the darkness to this very hour. 
When they learnt that their punishment had been of benefit to your people, they realized that it was your work, Lord. 
These are the things that make a person unclean. But to eat without washing your hands as they say you should — this doesn't make a person unclean.” 
but to a sensible person, it is like gold bracelets. An intelligent person will smile quietly while a fool roars with laughter. 
That is why The Book of the LORD's Battles speaks of “…the town of Waheb in the area of Suphah, and the valleys; the River Arnon, 
People of Judah and Israel! In the past foreigners have cursed one another by saying, ‘May the same disasters fall on you that fell on Judah and Israel!’ But I will save you, and then those foreigners will say to one another, ‘May you receive the same blessings that came to Judah and Israel!’ So have courage and don't be afraid.” 
That man never thought of being kind; : he persecuted and killed : the poor, the needy, and the helpless. 
The LORD saved me from death; : he stopped my tears : and kept me from defeat. 
The priest shall present the bread with the two lambs as a special gift to the LORD for the priests. These offerings are holy. 
or to the regulations concerning what the priests could demand from the people. Instead, when anyone was offering a sacrifice, the priest's servant would come with a three-pronged fork. While the meat was still cooking, 
So all who believe in the Son of God have this testimony in their own hearts; but those who do not believe God have made him out to be a liar, because they have not believed what God has said about his Son. 
Each evening Aaron shall light them and keep them burning until morning, there in the LORD's presence outside the curtain in front of the Covenant Box, which is in the Most Holy Place. This regulation is to be observed for all time to come. 
Gideon replied, “But LORD, how can I rescue Israel? My clan is the weakest in the tribe of Manasseh, and I am the least important member of my family.” 
“Oh no, sir,” answered the officer. “I do not deserve to have you come into my house. Just give the order, and my servant will get well. 
But the people there would not receive him, because it was clear that he was on his way to Jerusalem. 
As soon as I left them, I found him. : I held him and wouldn't let him go : until I took him to my mother's house, : to the room where I was born. 
When you went to live in Egypt as foreigners, you did so of your own free will; Assyria, however, took you away by force and paid nothing for you. 
War with the Philistines broke out again. David attacked them and defeated them so thoroughly that they fled. 
Their king will be carried off, like a chip of wood on water. 
They act as if my people's wounds were only scratches. ‘All is well,’ they say, when all is not well. 
If you are sensible, you will control your temper. When someone wrongs you, it is a great virtue to ignore it. 
The Lord has pulled up nations by the roots and established humbler ones in their place. 
The LORD gave Moses and Aaron the following regulations 
He brings storm clouds from the ends of the earth; : he makes lightning for the storms, : and he brings out the wind from his storeroom. 
It may even be that my boldness will save me, : since no wicked person would dare to face God. 
Jesus then went back again across the River Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing, and he stayed there. 
Then how can we ignore your commandments again and intermarry with these wicked people? If we do, you will be so angry that you will destroy us completely and let no one survive. 
Edom has been independent of Judah ever since. During this same period the city of Libnah also revolted. 
The apostles shook the dust off their feet in protest against them and went on to Iconium. 
There I saw the dazzling light that shows the presence of Israel's God, just as I had seen it when I was by the River Chebar. 
Everyone being counted in the census, that is, every man twenty years old or older, is to pay me this amount. 
So the chief priests made plans to kill Lazarus too, 
I call to you, LORD; help me now! : Listen to me when I call to you. 
When Jacob came in from the fields in the evening, Leah went out to meet him and said, “You are going to sleep with me tonight, because I have paid for you with my son's mandrakes.” So he had intercourse with her that night. 
Zacchaeus stood up and said to the Lord, “Listen, sir! I will give half my belongings to the poor, and if I have cheated anyone, I will pay back four times as much.” 
So Peter said to her, “Why did you and your husband decide to put the Lord's Spirit to the test? The men who buried your husband are now at the door, and they will carry you out too!” 
Jacob's eyesight was failing because of his age, and he could not see very well. Joseph brought the boys to him, and he hugged them and kissed them. 
Whoever continues to sin belongs to the Devil, because the Devil has sinned from the very beginning. The Son of God appeared for this very reason, to destroy what the Devil had done. 
Makkedah, Bethel, 
When Jesus had gone indoors, the two blind men came to him, and he asked them, “Do you believe that I can heal you?” : “Yes, sir!” they answered. 
Rich people work hard to make a lot of money; then they can sit back and live in luxury. 
I myself was once alive apart from law; but when the commandment came, sin sprang to life, 
The LORD spoke to me again. 
even your friends will leave you then. But when you are successful, your enemies will act like friends.  
I will approve of those who are faithful to God : and will let them live in my palace. : Those who are completely honest : will be allowed to serve me. 
Jesus answered, “It is written in your own Law that God said, ‘You are gods.’  
They let them down and caught such a large number of fish that the nets were about to break. 
Uriah did as the king commanded. 
“Now, mortal man, pack a bundle just as a refugee would, and start out before nightfall. Let everyone see you leaving and going to another place. Maybe those rebels will notice you.  
Then the LORD gave the donkey the power of speech, and it said to Balaam, “What have I done to you? Why have you beaten me these three times?” 
But a man who commits adultery hasn't any sense. He is just destroying himself. 
All this has happened to us, : even though we have not forgotten you : or broken the covenant you made with us. 
But just when the seven days were about to come to an end, some Jews from the province of Asia saw Paul in the Temple. They stirred up the whole crowd and seized Paul. 
This portion included the hill country, the western foothills, the Jordan Valley and its foothills, the eastern slopes, and the dry country in the south. This land had been the home of the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. 
The king will drink from the stream by the road, : and strengthened, he will stand victorious.
Drunkards and gluttons will be reduced to poverty. If all you do is eat and sleep, you will soon be wearing rags. 
This was actually the second time Ahikar was appointed to this position, for when Sennacherib was emperor of Assyria, Ahikar had been wine steward, treasurer, and accountant, and had been in charge of the official seal. Since Ahikar was my nephew, he put in a good word for me with the emperor, and I was allowed to return to Nineveh.
The woman shall be made to stand in front of the altar, and the priest shall perform this ritual. 
All through our lives we meet anger, jealousy, and trouble. Things disturb us; we live with furious conflicts and with the fear of death. Even when we go to bed, we think up new troubles in our sleep. 
The LORD has done to you what he told you through me: he has taken the kingdom away from you and given it to David instead. 
The Lord can look out over all the stars in the sky. Human beings? They are dust and ashes.
“My people are like sheep whose shepherds have let them get lost in the mountains. They have wandered like sheep from one mountain to another, and they have forgotten where their home is. 
He must refund a part of the purchase price according to the number of years left, 
And yet I do not need bulls from your farms : or goats from your flocks; 
But if the ruling prince gives any of his land to anyone who is in his service, it will become the prince's property again when the Year of Restoration comes round. It belongs to him, and only he and his sons can own it permanently. 
Instead, be concerned above everything else with the Kingdom of God and with what he requires of you, and he will provide you with all these other things.  
Lift up your tired hands, then, and strengthen your trembling knees! 
and the Israelites started on their journey out of the Sinai Desert. The cloud came to rest in the wilderness of Paran. 
Love is made perfect in us in order that we may have courage on Judgement Day; and we will have it because our life in this world is the same as Christ's. 
When I think of what has happened to me, : I am stunned, and I tremble and shake. 
Instead, go to my father's people, to my relatives, and choose a wife for him.’ 
In this way Jacob became very wealthy. He had many flocks, slaves, camels, and donkeys.
She put on sandals and all her finest jewellery: rings and earrings, and bracelets on her wrists and ankles. She made herself so beautiful that she was sure to attract the attention of any man who saw her. 
But if anyone rejects me publicly, I will reject him before my Father in heaven. 
The girl at the gate said to Peter, “Aren't you also one of the disciples of that man?” : “No, I am not,” answered Peter. 
be sure to tell him that you have taken care of livestock all your lives, just as your ancestors did. In this way he will let you live in the region of Goshen.” Joseph said this because Egyptians will have nothing to do with shepherds.
As long as he lived, the people throughout Judah and Israel lived in safety, each family with its own grapevines and fig trees. 
They threw dice to decide : who would get the captives. : They sold boys and girls into slavery : to pay for prostitutes and wine. 
If you do, I, the LORD, will answer them when they cry out to me for help, 
It was the same with the prostitute Rahab. She was put right with God through her actions, by welcoming the Israelite spies and helping them to escape by a different road. 
“Yes, I have sinned,” Saul replied. “I disobeyed the LORD's command and your instructions. I was afraid of my men and did what they wanted. 
The thin cows ate up the fat ones, 
May all your enemies die like that, O LORD, : but may your friends shine like the rising sun! : And there was peace in the land for forty years.
The king and Jehoiada would give the money to those who were in charge of repairing the Temple, and they hired stonemasons, carpenters, and metalworkers to make the repairs. 
Their tongues are like deadly snakes; : their words are like a cobra's poison. 
Listen, the time is coming when I will kill all the young men in your family and your clan, so that no man in your family will live to be old. 
Of the descendants of Perez, 468 outstanding men lived in Jerusalem.
The king of Jericho heard that some Israelites had come that night to spy out the country, 
You are about to cross the River Jordan and occupy the land that the LORD your God is giving you. When you take it and settle there, 
If we had stopped worshipping our God : and prayed to a foreign god, 
To those with insight, it is all clear; : to the well-informed, it is all plain. 
The LORD, the God of Israel, chose me and my descendants to rule Israel for ever. He chose the tribe of Judah to provide leadership, and out of Judah he chose my father's family. From all that family it was his pleasure to take me and make me king over all Israel. 
He did what was pleasing to the LORD as long as Jehoiada the priest was alive. 
Then you will call, and I will answer, : and you will be pleased with me, your creature. 
and said to them, “You live in Canaan, so tell me about the people who live in these mountains. Which cities do they occupy? How large is their army? What is the source of their power and strength? Who is the king who leads their army? 
Others, however, said, “He is Elijah.” : Others said, “He is a prophet, like one of the prophets of long ago.” 
An inner room, called the Most Holy Place, was built in the rear of the Temple. It was nine metres long and was partitioned off by cedar boards reaching from the floor to the ceiling.  
He had seven sons, listed in order of age: Zechariah, Jediael, Zebadiah, Jathniel, 
Simon Peter, Thomas (called the Twin), Nathanael (the one from Cana in Galilee), the sons of Zebedee, and two other disciples of Jesus were all together. 
Evil people look for ways to harm others; even their words burn with evil. 
Joseph was served at one table and his brothers at another. The Egyptians who were eating there were served separately, because they considered it beneath their dignity to eat with Hebrews. 
The LORD answered, “I will make all my splendour pass before you and in your presence I will pronounce my sacred name. I am the LORD, and I show compassion and pity on those I choose. 
But the Lord has reduced the number of those days; if he had not, nobody would survive. For the sake of his chosen people, however, he has reduced those days. 
They are to work with you and fulfil their responsibilities for all the service in the Tent, but no unqualified person may work with you. 
“Today I am giving you a choice between good and evil, between life and death. 
But if the hairs in it have not turned white and it is not deeper than the surrounding skin, but is light in colour, the priest shall isolate him for seven days. 
Nebuchadnezzar deported all the important men to Babylonia, 7,000 in all, and 1,000 skilled workers, including the blacksmiths, all of them able-bodied men fit for military duty. 
There was also Obed Edom, whom God blessed by giving him eight sons, listed in order of age: Shemaiah, Jehozabad, Joah, Sachar, Nethanel, 
And trust your own judgement; no one's advice is more reliable. 
Then the LORD said to Moses and Aaron, “Take a few handfuls of ashes from a furnace; Moses shall throw them into the air in front of the king. 
I begged Titus to go, and I sent the other Christian brother with him. Would you say that Titus took advantage of you? Do he and I not act from the very same motives and behave in the same way? 
Put the lid on the Covenant Box. 
They have made this land a thing of horror, : to be despised for ever. : All who pass by will be shocked at what they see; : they will shake their heads in amazement. 
But how can I alone bear the heavy responsibility for settling your disputes? 
The LORD our God let us capture all the towns from Aroer, on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and the city in the middle of that valley, all the way to Gilead. No town had walls too strong for us. 
The people who were in front and those who followed behind began to shout, “Praise God! God bless him who comes in the name of the Lord! 
They wait on the banks of the River Arnon and move aimlessly to and fro, like birds driven from their nest. 
Invaders will sail from Cyprus; : They will conquer Assyria and Eber, : But they, in turn, will perish for ever.” 
Have reverence for the LORD, my child, and honour the king. Have nothing to do with people who rebel against them; 
Then I heard one angel ask another, “How long will these things that were seen in the vision continue? How long will an awful sin replace the daily sacrifices? How long will the army of heaven and the Temple be trampled on?” 
Birds come to roost with those of their own kind, and the habit of honesty comes to those who try to be honest. 
Solomon had 40,000 stalls for his chariot horses and 12,000 cavalry horses. 
For even if that letter of mine made you sad, I am not sorry I wrote it. I could have been sorry when I saw that it made you sad for a while. 
Then people would be so attracted by the work of art, that the one whom they had earlier honoured now became the object of their worship. 
“The LORD will curse your towns and your fields. 
No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him to me; and I will raise him to life on the last day.  
How can I go back to my father if the boy is not with me? I cannot bear to see this disaster come upon my father.”
May all who come to you : be glad and joyful. : May all who are thankful for your salvation : always say, “How great is the LORD!” 
They are like greedy dogs that never get enough. These leaders have no understanding. They each do as they please and seek their own advantage. 
He will love you and bless you, so that you will increase in number and have many children; he will bless your fields, so that you will have corn, wine, and olive oil; and he will bless you by giving you a lot of cattle and sheep. He will give you all these blessings in the land that he promised your ancestors he would give to you. 
“Some men did come to my house,” she answered, “but I don't know where they were from. They left at sunset before the city gate was closed. I didn't find out where they were going, but if you start after them quickly, you can catch them.” (Now Rahab had taken the two spies up on the roof and hidden them under some stalks of flax that she had put there.) 
Then, following the prophet's instructions, the king opened the window that faced towards Syria. “Shoot the arrow!” Elisha ordered. As soon as the king shot the arrow, the prophet exclaimed, “You are the LORD's arrow, with which he will win victory over Syria. You will fight the Syrians in Aphek until you defeat them.” 
Even if there are so-called “gods”, whether in heaven or on earth, and even though there are many of these “gods” and “lords”, 
The LORD asked, ‘Who will deceive Ahab so that he will go and get killed at Ramoth?’ Some of the angels said one thing, and others said something else, 
It's good manners to be the first to stop eating; stuffing yourself is offensive. 
Lazy people should learn a lesson from the way ants live. 
“God of my ancestors, merciful Lord, by your word you created everything. 
Down to that time members of their clans had been stationed at the eastern entrance to the King's Gate. Formerly they had stood guard at the gates to the camps of the Levites. 
Then he shall take the two goats to the entrance of the Tent of the LORD's presence. 
We therefore are convinced that if this city is rebuilt and its walls are completed, Your Majesty will no longer be able to control the province of West Euphrates.” 
So the king of Israel provided a great feast for them; and after they had eaten and drunk, he sent them back to the king of Syria. From then on the Syrians stopped raiding the land of Israel. 
All living things look hopefully to you, : and you give them food when they need it. 
The LORD said to me, 
“ ‘God's curse on anyone who has intercourse with his mother-in-law.’ : “And all the people will answer, ‘Amen!’ 
They refused to obey; they forgot all you did; : they forgot the miracles you had performed. : In their pride they chose a leader : to take them back to slavery in Egypt. : But you are a God who forgives; : you are gracious and loving, slow to be angry. : Your mercy is great; you did not forsake them. 
All ate the same spiritual bread 
The coming of the Son of Man will be like what happened in the time of Noah.  
Planning and thought lie behind everything that is done. 
Mordecai told him everything that had happened to him and just how much money Haman had promised to put into the royal treasury if all the Jews were killed. 
From then on half my men worked and half stood guard, wearing coats of armour and armed with spears, shields, and bows. And our leaders gave their full support to the people 
Your rich people exploit the poor, and all of you are liars. 
When I was born, I came into the world like anyone else. I began to breathe the same air we all breathe; and like everyone else, the first sound I made was a cry. 
When he comes, he will rule his people with the strength that comes from the LORD and with the majesty of the LORD God himself. His people will live in safety because people all over the earth will acknowledge his greatness, 
And as for us — why would we run the risk of danger every hour? 
But to keep this matter from spreading any further among the people, let us warn these men never again to speak to anyone in the name of Jesus.” 
Ephlal, Obed, 
A good person brings good things out of a treasure of good things; a bad person brings bad things out of a treasure of bad things. 
It is clear that God gave those Gentiles the same gift that he gave us when we believed in the Lord Jesus Christ; who was I, then, to try to stop God!” 
Amasa was not on guard against the sword that Joab was holding in his other hand, and Joab stabbed him in the belly, and his entrails spilt out on the ground. He died immediately, and Joab did not have to strike again. : Then Joab and his brother Abishai went on after Sheba. 
Merari's second son, Mushi, had three sons: Mahli, Eder, and Jeremoth. 
“On the Sabbath the prince is to bring to the LORD, as sacrifices to be burnt whole, six lambs and one ram, all without any defects. 
Next, the man measured the width of the passage in the gateway. It was 6.5 metres altogether, and the space between the open gates was five metres. 
Within the territories of Issachar and Asher, Manasseh possessed Beth Shan and Ibleam, along with their surrounding towns, as well as Dor (the one on the coast), Endor, Taanach, Megiddo, and their surrounding towns. 
I know that you test everyone's heart and are pleased with people of integrity. In honesty and sincerity I have willingly given all this to you, and I have seen how your people who are gathered here have been happy to bring offerings to you. 
This, however, is not the way it shall be among you. If one of you wants to be great, he must be the servant of the rest;  
Ahaziah became king at the age of 22, and he ruled in Jerusalem for one year. Ahaziah also followed the example of King Ahab's family, since his mother Athaliah — the daughter of King Ahab and granddaughter of King Omri of Israel
So died King Ahab. His body was taken to Samaria and buried. 
Kings are pleased with competent officials, but they punish those who fail them.
(Solomon had made a bronze platform and put it in the middle of the courtyard. It was 2.2 metres square and 1.3 metres high. He mounted this platform, knelt down where everyone could see him, and raised his hands towards heaven.) 
the Covenant Box containing the stone tablets, its poles, and its lid; 
It does not matter! I am happy about it — so long as Christ is preached in every way possible, whether from wrong or right motives. And I will continue to be happy, 
Wisdom will never be at home with anyone who is deceitful or who is a slave of sin. 
Abishur's brother Nadab had two sons, Seled and Appaim, but Seled died without having any sons. 
The LORD remembers us and will bless us; : he will bless the people of Israel : and all the priests of God. 
There was a plot in Jerusalem to assassinate Amaziah, so he fled to the city of Lachish, but his enemies followed him there and killed him. 
Other people are selfish and reject what is right, in order to follow what is wrong; on them God will pour out his anger and fury. 
I called to you, LORD; : I begged for your help
He put him in charge of his government : and made him ruler over all the land, 
But the army officer was convinced by what the captain and the owner of the ship said, and not by what Paul said. 
The messengers went back to the officer's house and found his servant well. 
But as soon as the people had been put out, Jesus went into the girl's room and took hold of her hand, and she got up. 
We know that we have left death and come over into life; we know it because we love our brothers and sisters. Whoever does not love is still under the power of death. 
This burnt offering is to be offered every Sabbath in addition to the daily offering with its wine offering. 
Show mercy towards those who have doubts; 
After you have taken the city, set it on fire, just as the LORD has commanded. These are your orders.” 
You yourselves are my witnesses that I said, ‘I am not the Messiah, but I have been sent ahead of him.’ 
He is a merciful God. He will not abandon you or destroy you, and he will not forget the covenant that he himself made with your ancestors. 
Kill it, and take its blood and throw it against all four sides of the altar. 
Sisera ran away to the tent of Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, because King Jabin of Hazor was at peace with Heber's family. 
Then the seventh angel blew his trumpet, and there were loud voices in heaven, saying, “The power to rule over the world belongs now to our Lord and his Messiah, and he will rule for ever and ever!” 
Certain Epicurean and Stoic teachers also debated with him. Some of them asked, “What is this ignorant show-off trying to say?” : Others answered, “He seems to be talking about foreign gods.” They said this because Paul was preaching about Jesus and the resurrection.  
So he rose from the table, took off his outer garment, and tied a towel round his waist. 
“You are to have a place outside the camp where you can go when you need to relieve yourselves. 
Mordecai left the palace, wearing royal robes of blue and white, a cloak of fine purple linen, and a magnificent gold crown. Then the streets of Susa rang with cheers and joyful shouts. 
They kept on ranting and raving until the middle of the afternoon; but no answer came, not a sound was heard. 
The toes — partly iron and partly clay — mean that part of the empire will be strong and part of it weak. 
Am I made of stone? Is my body bronze? 
This is the gate of the LORD; : only the righteous can come in. 
the bases for the surrounding enclosure and for the entrance of the enclosure, and all the pegs for the Tent and the surrounding enclosure.
When the Israelites set up camp, each man will camp under the banner of his division and the flag of his own clan. The camp is to be set up all round the Tent. 
The fighting continued all day long. Abimelech captured the city, killed its people, tore it down, and covered the ground with salt. 
He would tell you there are many sides to wisdom; : there are things too deep for human knowledge. : God is punishing you less than you deserve. 
Love is eternal. There are inspired messages, but they are temporary; there are gifts of speaking in strange tongues, but they will cease; there is knowledge, but it will pass. 
It can keep you away from bad women, from the seductive words of other men's wives. 
I made it beautiful, with spreading branches. : It was the envy of every tree in Eden, the garden of God. 
But if he does not buy it back within the year, he loses the right of repurchase, and the house becomes the permanent property of the purchaser and his descendants; it will not be returned in the Year of Restoration. 
and he slept there. : At dawn Samuel called to Saul on the roof, “Get up, and I will send you on your way.” Saul got up, and he and Samuel went out to the street together. 
Jehu drew his bow, and with all his strength shot an arrow that struck Joram in the back and pierced his heart. Joram fell dead in his chariot, 
Those who want to kill me lay traps for me, : and those who want to hurt me threaten to ruin me; : they never stop plotting against me. 
By the LORD's help he was a great hunter, and that is why people say, “May the LORD make you as great a hunter as Nimrod!” 
As Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside and spoke to them privately, as they walked along. 
To go from the womb straight to the grave : would have been as good as never existing. 
Ram had three sons: Maaz, Jamin, and Eker. Jerahmeel had another wife, a woman named Atarah, and they had a son, Onam. 
“Women are not to wear men's clothing, and men are not to wear women's clothing; the LORD your God hates people who do such things. 
and she bore him a son, whom he named Er. 
The LORD said to Moses and Aaron, 
You say to yourselves, “We can hardly wait for the holy days to be over so that we can sell our corn. When will the Sabbath end, so that we can start selling again? Then we can overcharge, use false measures, and tamper with the scales to cheat our customers. 
He found out that Jacob had obeyed his father and mother and had gone to Mesopotamia. 
The watchman said, “I can see that the first man runs like Ahimaaz.” : “He's a good man,” the king said, “and he is bringing good news.” 
If you allow yourself to satisfy your every desire, you will be a joke to your enemies. 
But he also sent me to cure you and to rescue your daughter-in-law, Sarah, from her troubles. 
Ledges 25 millimetres wide ran round the edge of the tables. All the meat to be offered in sacrifice was placed on the tables. 
Amos said, : “The LORD roars from Mount Zion; : his voice thunders from Jerusalem. : The pastures dry up, : and the grass on Mount Carmel turns brown.” 
The LORD answered Elijah's prayer; the child started breathing again and revived. 
He must be stopped because he told the people in Babylonia that they would be prisoners there a long time and should build houses, settle down, plant gardens, and eat what they grow.” 
If God looks at you closely, will he find anything good? : Do you think you can fool God as you fool others? 
Do not disgrace your father by having intercourse with your mother. You must not disgrace your own mother. 
Everybody wants the good will of the ruler, but only from the LORD can you get justice. 
and the king said to Ittai, their leader, “Why are you going with us? Go back and stay with the new king. You are a foreigner, a refugee away from your own country. 
How is it that you don't understand that I was not talking to you about bread? Guard yourselves from the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees!” 
Jesus went on to say, “There was once a man who had two sons.  
Instead, your sins have kept these good things from you. 
An offering is to be made if anyone sins against the LORD by refusing to return what a fellow-Israelite has left as a deposit or by stealing something from him or by cheating him 
That is why Abraham, through faith, “was accepted as righteous by God”. 
We cannot add to them; we cannot subtract from them. There is no way to comprehend the marvellous things the Lord has done. 
There is nothing that can be hidden from God; everything in all creation is exposed and lies open before his eyes. And it is to him that we must all give an account of ourselves. 
The LORD said, “I did not send these prophets, but even so they went. I did not give them any message, but still they spoke in my name. 
Hazael went back to Benhadad, who asked him, “What did Elisha say?” : “He told me that you would certainly get well,” Hazael answered. 
Work hard at whatever you do, because there will be no action, no thought, no knowledge, no wisdom in the world of the dead — and that is where you are going. 
in preparing large quantities of timber, because this temple I intend to build will be large and magnificent. 
until at last the LORD banished them from his sight, as he had warned through his servants the prophets that he would do. So the people of Israel were taken into exile to Assyria, where they still live. 
I will make them pay double for their sin and wickedness, because they have defiled my land with idols that are as lifeless as corpses, and have filled it with their false gods.” 
and avoid every kind of evil. 
My chosen people are like a bird : attacked from all sides by hawks. : Call the wild animals : to come and join in the feast! 
And so the Lord will not let any of the young men escape, and he will not show pity to any of the widows and orphans, because all the people are godless and wicked and everything they say is evil. Yet even so the LORD's anger will not be ended, but his hand will still be stretched out to punish. 
All the other prophets said the same thing. “March against Ramoth and you will win,” they said. “The LORD will give you victory.” 
Tell Aaron everything I command you, and he will tell the king to let the Israelites leave his country. 
and was put under guard, because it was not clear what should be done with him. 
They did not keep their covenant with God; : they refused to obey his law. 
May the LORD look on you with favour and give you peace. 
They have destroyed our grapevines : and chewed up our fig trees. : They have stripped off the bark, : till the branches are white. 
So Ahab called in the prophets, about 400 of them, and asked them, “Should I go and attack Ramoth, or not?” : “Attack it,” they answered. “The Lord will give you victory.” 
Who, then, will condemn them? Not Christ Jesus, who died, or rather, who was raised to life and is at the right-hand side of God, pleading with him for us! 
“You will sow plenty of seed, but reap only a small harvest, because the locusts will eat your crops. 
Jesus answered, “What is humanly impossible is possible for God.” 
Then Moses requested, “Please, let me see the dazzling light of your presence.” 
“So then, this is what I, the LORD Almighty, say about the prophets of Jerusalem: : I will give them bitter plants to eat : and poison to drink, : because they have spread ungodliness throughout the land.” 
If only they would always feel like this! If only they would always honour me and obey all my commands, so that everything would go well with them and their descendants for ever. 
Do not compliment a person on his good looks. On the other hand, do not look down on someone who is unattractive. 
Then Jacob went to Egypt : and settled in that country. 
“But if a righteous person stops doing good and starts doing all the evil, disgusting things that evil people do, will he go on living? No! None of the good he did will be remembered. He will die because of his unfaithfulness and his sins. 
They turned their backs on me; and though I kept on teaching them, they would not listen and learn. 
as God had commanded. Then the LORD shut the door behind Noah. 
It was winter and the king was sitting in his winter palace in front of the fire. 
Then it will be a private matter. And your Father, who sees what you do in private, will reward you. 
So then, the Law itself is holy, and the commandment is holy, right, and good. 
Then the LORD, 
The kings of the earth who took part in her immorality and lust will cry and weep over the city when they see the smoke from the flames that consume her. 
I will put an end to all her festivities — her annual and monthly festivals and her Sabbath celebrations — all her religious meetings. 
Another of his disciples, Andrew, who was Simon Peter's brother, said, 
The blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of a burnt calf are sprinkled on the people who are ritually unclean, and this purifies them by taking away their ritual impurity. 
Panic seized all the people who lived along the Mediterranean Sea, and they shook with fear. Everyone in the towns of Tyre, Sidon, Sur, Ocina, Jamnia, Ashdod, and Ashkelon was terrified.
After the disciples had done so, 
He said to these men, “I, King Xerxes, sent my servants to Queen Vashti with a command, and she refused to obey it! What does the law say that we should do with her?” 
If the God whom we serve is able to save us from the blazing furnace and from your power, then he will.  
When there is mildew on clothing, whether wool or linen, 
These are the food offerings that are to be presented to the LORD: for the daily burnt offering, two one-year-old male lambs without any defects. 
You will all be disgraced — you that say that a tree is your father and that a rock is your mother. This will happen because you turned away from me instead of turning to me. But when you are in trouble, you ask me to come and save you. 
I appeared to them from far away. People of Israel, I have always loved you, so I continue to show you my constant love. 
If a sheep or goat is used as a fellowship offering, it may be male or female, but it must be without any defects. 
Depending on an unreliable person in a crisis is like trying to chew with a loose tooth or walk with a crippled foot. 
If I have turned from the right path : or let myself be attracted to evil, : if my hands are stained with sin, 
He will be the one to build a temple for me, and I will make sure that his dynasty continues for ever. 
“I wanted to gather my people, as a farmer gathers a harvest; but they are like a vine with no grapes, like a fig tree with no figs; even the leaves have withered. Therefore, I have allowed outsiders to take over the land.” 
Be merciful to me, O LORD! : See the sufferings my enemies cause me! : Rescue me from death, O LORD, 
“The LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, has spoken about Ahab son of Kolaiah and Zedekiah son of Maaseiah, who are telling you lies in his name. He has said that he will hand them over to the power of King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia, who will put them to death before your eyes. 
We do not want you to become lazy, but to be like those who believe and are patient, and so receive what God has promised. 
So all your loyal people should pray to you in times of need; : when a great flood of trouble comes rushing in, : it will not reach them. 
Joppa was not very far from Lydda, and when the believers in Joppa heard that Peter was in Lydda, they sent two men to him with the message, “Please hurry and come to us.” 
But just as he kept every promise that he made to you, so he will carry out every threat. 
In the outer courtyard there was an annexe attached to the inner gateway on the north side. It opened into the entrance room that faced the courtyard, and there they washed the carcasses of the animals to be burnt whole as sacrifices. 
These were the ancestral heads of families and their principal descendants who lived in Jerusalem. 
People not yet born will be told: : “The Lord saved his people.”
I hate them with a total hatred; : I regard them as my enemies. 
The goat grew more and more arrogant, but at the height of his power his horn was broken. In its place four prominent horns came up, each pointing in a different direction. 
“Go to a certain man in the city,” he said to them, “and tell him: ‘The Teacher says, My hour has come; my disciples and I will celebrate the Passover at your house.’ ” 
They are filled with all kinds of wickedness, evil, greed, and vice; they are full of jealousy, murder, fighting, deceit, and malice. They gossip 
and then hand him over to the Gentiles, who will mock him, whip him, and crucify him; but three days later he will be raised to life.” 
Remember that the LORD your God corrects and punishes you just as a father disciplines his children. 
So the servants went out into the streets and gathered all the people they could find, good and bad alike; and the wedding hall was filled with people. 
The LORD made the king stubborn, and he pursued the Israelites, who were leaving triumphantly.  
Then his brothers themselves came and bowed down before him. “Here we are before you as your slaves,” they said. 
But you, my friends, keep on building yourselves up on your most sacred faith. Pray in the power of the Holy Spirit, 
“Command the people of Israel to bring you the best olive oil for the lamp, so that it can be lit each evening. 
or to ask God, “How does my sin affect you? : What have I gained by not sinning?” 
Adin — 454 
Jonah started through the city, and after walking a whole day, he proclaimed, “In forty days Nineveh will be destroyed!” 
but I refused to do so. 
Listen, Jeremiah! Everyone in this land — the kings of Judah, the officials, the priests, and the people — will be against you. But today I am giving you the strength to resist them; you will be like a fortified city, an iron pillar, and a bronze wall. They will not defeat you, for I will be with you to protect you. I, the LORD, have spoken.”
Take care, then, so that what the prophets said may not happen to you
He also brought the animal for the burnt offering and offered it according to the regulations. 
But now that I have finished my work in these regions and since I have been wanting for so many years to come to see you, 
So Jonah obeyed the LORD and went to Nineveh, a city so large that it took three days to walk through it. 
But the teacher of the Law wanted to justify himself, so he asked Jesus, “Who is my neighbour?” 
The LORD made a covenant with Jacob, : one that will last for ever. 
“Then my favour will shine on you like the morning sun, and your wounds will be quickly healed. I will always be with you to save you; my presence will protect you on every side. 
and he ruled for 41 years in Jerusalem. His grandmother was Maacah, the daughter of Absalom. 
So all this became a deadly trap, because people who were grieving, or under royal authority, would take objects of stone or wood, and give them the honour reserved for the one God. 
He will pick you up like a ball and throw you into a much larger country. You will die there beside the chariots you were so proud of. You are a disgrace to your master's household. 
So there is no longer any need for the Levites to carry the Tent of the LORD's presence and all the equipment used in worship.” 
These do so from love, because they know that God has given me the work of defending the gospel. 
The angel of God spoke to me in the dream and said, ‘Jacob!’ ‘Yes,’ I answered. 
At once they screamed, “What do you want with us, you Son of God? Have you come to punish us before the right time?” 
Led by the Spirit, Simeon went into the Temple. When the parents brought the child Jesus into the Temple to do for him what the Law required, 
Your reward depends on what you say and what you do; you will get what you deserve. 
For we are partners working together for God, and you are God's field. : You are also God's building. 
The LORD protects and defends me; : I trust in him. : He gives me help and makes me glad; : I praise him with joyful songs. 
There was murder in the city, but the blood was not spilt on the ground where the dust could hide it; it was spilt on a bare rock. 
do not pay any attention to them. The LORD your God is using them to test you, to see if you love the LORD with all your heart. 
I was holding the king's cup; so I took the grapes and squeezed them into the cup and gave it to him.” 
O LORD God, you have let me succeed my father as king, even though I am very young and don't know how to rule. 
Aaron said to them, “Take off the gold earrings which your wives, your sons, and your daughters are wearing, and bring them to me.” 
They took note of this and were pleased. Indeed, everything the king did pleased the people. 
Then the LORD appointed watchmen to listen for the trumpet's warning. But they said, “We will not listen.” 
The LORD will rescue his people : when he sees that their strength is gone. : He will have mercy on those who serve him, : when he sees how helpless they are. 
“When the LORD your God enlarges your territory, as he told your ancestors he would, and gives you all the land he has promised, 
Elijah took the boy back downstairs to his mother and said to her, “Look, your son is alive!” 
and said in the presence of all the people: “The LORD has said that this is how he will break the yoke that King Nebuchadnezzar has put on the neck of all the nations; and he will do this within two years.” Then I left. 
Whoever does not have the Spirit cannot receive the gifts that come from God's Spirit. Such people really do not understand them; they are nonsense to them, because their value can be judged only on a spiritual basis. 
But the wicked will die; : the enemies of the LORD will vanish like wild flowers; : they will disappear like smoke. 
Then the leaders and the people said to the priests and the prophets, “This man spoke to us in the name of the LORD our God; he should not be put to death.” 
They also took the document the emperor had given them and gave it to the governors and officials of the province of West Euphrates, who then gave their support to the people and the temple worship.
“So prophesy to the land of Israel; tell the mountains, hills, brooks, and valleys what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying in jealous anger because of the way the nations have insulted and humiliated them. 
When Jesus finished speaking, a Pharisee invited him to eat with him; so he went in and sat down to eat. 
Yes, it is God who raises the humble : and gives joy to all who mourn. 
and he sent them a prophet who brought them this message from the LORD, the God of Israel: “I brought you out of slavery in Egypt. 
“Just throw him into this well in the wilderness, but don't hurt him.” He said this, planning to save him from them and send him back to his father. 
That same day Jesus left the house and went to the lakeside, where he sat down to teach. 
Then the LORD gave me the two stone tablets on which he had written with his own hand what he had said to you from the fire on the day that you were gathered there at the mountain. 
They say to the people of Judah, “Tell us what to do. Protect us like a tree that casts a cool shadow in the heat of noon, and let us rest in your shade. We are refugees; hide us where no one can find us. 
“Go to King Ahab of Samaria. You will find him in Naboth's vineyard, about to take possession of it. 
The king ordered this to be done, and the proclamation was issued in Susa. The bodies of Haman's ten sons were publicly displayed. 
They have spoken to the church here about your love. Please help them to continue their journey in a way that will please God. 
At that time I will remove the names of the idols from the land, and no one will remember them any more. I will get rid of anyone who claims to be a prophet and will take away the desire to worship idols. 
The proverbs of Solomon, son of David and king of Israel. 
It is better that your children be dependent on you than the other way round. 
Read it to the people of Israel when they come to worship the LORD your God at the one place of worship. 
Uzziah went to war against the Philistines. He tore down the walls of the cities of Gath, Jamnia, and Ashdod, and built fortified cities near Ashdod and in the rest of Philistia. 
Rechab and Baanah set out for Ishbosheth's house and arrived there about noon, while he was taking his midday rest. 
So the LORD became angry with the Israelites, and let the Philistines and the Ammonites conquer them. 
You have not let my enemies capture me; : you have given me freedom to go where I wish. 
He knows that I am faultless, : that I have kept myself from doing wrong. 
To Timothy, my true son in the faith: : May God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord give you grace, mercy, and peace. 
I crush them, and they become like dust; : I trample on them like mud in the streets. 
Korah had three sons: Assir, Elkanah, and Abiasaph; they were the ancestors of the divisions of the clan of Korah. 
The Sovereign LORD gives me strength. : He makes me sure-footed as a deer, : and keeps me safe on the mountains.
Inside it was 27 metres long, nine metres wide, and 13.5 metres high. 
“I have already decided on their punishment, and their sentence is written down. I will not overlook what they have done, but will repay them 
The LORD says, “The time is coming when I will choose as king a righteous descendant of David. That king will rule wisely and do what is right and just throughout the land. 
He gave medical knowledge to human beings, so that we would praise him for the miracles he performs. 
“The people of Heshbon and Elealeh cry out, and their cry can be heard as far as Jahaz; it can be heard by the people in Zoar, and it is heard as far as Horonaim and Eglath Shelishiyah. Even the brook of Nimrim has dried up. 
Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he became king of Judah, and he ruled in Jerusalem for three months. His mother was Nehushta, the daughter of Elnathan from Jerusalem. 
Shaharaim divorced two wives, Hushim and Baara. Later, when he lived in the country of Moab, he married Hodesh and had seven sons: Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam, 
Some messengers came and announced to King Jehoshaphat: “A large army from Edom has come from the other side of the Dead Sea to attack you. They have already captured Hazazon Tamar.” (This is another name for Engedi.) 
He made two gold carrying rings for it and attached them below the border on the two sides, to hold the poles with which it was to be carried. 
Day and night he wandered among the tombs and through the hills, screaming and cutting himself with stones. 
Then Moses sent for Dathan and Abiram, but they said, “We will not come! 
After all, these are the people whom you chose to be your own and whom you brought out of Egypt by your great power and might.’
He said to him, “You may eat the fruit of any tree in the garden, 
So I will triumph over my enemies around me. : With shouts of joy I will offer sacrifices in his Temple; : I will sing, I will praise the LORD. 
Jerusalem, the nations will see you victorious! : All their kings will see your glory. : You will be called by a new name, : A name given by the LORD himself. 
A time is coming when Tyre will be forgotten for seventy years, the lifetime of a king. When those years are over, Tyre will be like the prostitute in the song
But you, my friend, do those very things for which you pass judgement on others! Do you think you will escape God's judgement? 
It fell on the camp at night along with the dew. The next morning the people would go round and gather it, grind it or pound it into flour, and then boil it and make it into flat cakes. It tasted like bread baked with olive oil.) 
David invited him to supper and made him drunk. But again that night Uriah did not go home; instead he slept on his blanket in the palace guardroom. 
Can you take away a soldier's loot? : Can you rescue the prisoners of a tyrant? 
So when these have been forgiven, an offering to take away sins is no longer needed. 
He removed from office the priests that the kings of Judah had ordained to offer sacrifices on the pagan altars in the cities of Judah and in places near Jerusalem — all the priests who offered sacrifices to Baal, to the sun, the moon, the planets, and the stars. 
Then my people will know that I am the LORD their God. They will know this, because I sent them into captivity and now gather them and bring them back into their own land, not leaving even one of them behind. 
When you forgive someone for what he or she has done, I forgive them too. For when I forgive — if, indeed, I need to forgive anything — I do it in Christ's presence because of you, 
You are mighty and do wonderful things; : you alone are God. 
Announce to those who live in the palaces of Egypt and Ashdod: “Gather together in the hills surrounding Samaria and see the great disorder and the crimes being committed there.” 
Why, then, have you broken your promise and disobeyed my command? 
and made their hearts as hard as rock. Because they would not listen to the teaching which I sent through the prophets who lived long ago, I became very angry. 
This is what David meant when he spoke of the happiness of the person whom God accepts as righteous, apart from anything that person does
Rescue me from these lions; : I am helpless before these wild bulls. 
Then from here on earth I prayed to you : to rescue me from death. 
“When there is famine in the land or an epidemic or the crops are destroyed by scorching winds or swarms of locusts, or when your people are attacked by their enemies, or when there is disease or sickness among them, 
I have so many enemies, LORD, : so many who turn against me! 
The priest will take some of the blood of this sin offering and put it on the doorposts of the Temple, on the four corners of the altar, and on the posts of the gateways to the inner courtyard. 
This is what the Sovereign LORD is saying: “You have done all this like a shameless prostitute. 
If the woman is kind and gentle in her speech, her husband is the most fortunate of men. 
The Levites will speak these words in a loud voice
So then, I say that the time is coming when I will deal with Babylon's idols, and the wounded will groan throughout the country. 
I am worn out and utterly crushed; : my heart is troubled, and I groan with pain. 
But Abram answered, “Sovereign LORD, what good will your reward do me, since I have no children? My only heir is Eliezer of Damascus.  
the Creator of heaven, earth, and sea, : and all that is in them. : He always keeps his promises; 
I said to myself that your promise, sir, would make me safe, because the king is like God's angel and can distinguish good from evil. May the LORD your God be with you!” 
Their country was overrun with frogs, : even the palace was filled with them. 
The LORD spoke to Moses on Mount Sinai and commanded him 
When Moses' arms grew tired, Aaron and Hur brought a stone for him to sit on, while they stood beside him and held up his arms, holding them steady until the sun went down. 
And Isaiah is even bolder when he says, : “I was found by those who were not looking for me; : I appeared to those who were not asking for me.” 
But if he does not have enough money to buy the land back, it remains under the control of the man who bought it until the next Year of Restoration. In that year it will be returned to its original owner. 
They started to argue among themselves: “What shall we say? If we answer, ‘From God,’ he will say, ‘Why, then, did you not believe John?’ 
saying, “Mortal man, stand up. I want to talk to you.” 
I am weak and poor; : come to me quickly, O God. : You are my saviour, O LORD — : hurry to my aid!
They will come in fear to the Judgement, where their sins will be counted; they will stand condemned by their own lawless actions.
I said, “You will not be handed over to them. I beg you to obey the LORD's message; then all will go well with you, and your life will be spared. 
In her grief she built a little shelter on the roof of her house and lived there, wearing sackcloth. 
Keep your covenant with me, your LORD, and dedicate yourselves to me, you people of Judah and Jerusalem. If you don't, my anger will burn like fire because of the evil things you have done. It will burn, and there will be no one to put it out.” 
Tobiah was standing there beside him, and he added, “What kind of wall could they ever build? Even a fox could knock it down!” 
As indeed he says in another passage: : ‘You will not allow your faithful servant to rot in the grave.’ 
My brothers and sisters, if any of you wander away from the truth and another one brings them back again, 
Treat her exactly as she has treated you; : pay her back double for all she has done. : Fill her cup with a drink twice as strong : as the drink she prepared for you. 
You are to present to God in Jerusalem all the utensils that have been given to you for use in the temple services. 
People don't despise a thief if he steals food when he is hungry;  
Then the King will say to the people on his right, ‘Come, you that are blessed by my Father! Come and possess the kingdom which has been prepared for you ever since the creation of the world.  
“You will leave Babylon with joy; : you will be led out of the city in peace. : The mountains and hills will burst into singing, : and the trees will shout for joy. 
Eavesdropping at doors is bad manners, and anyone with a sense of decency would be ashamed to do it. 
I, the LORD, have decided that four terrible things will happen to them: they will be killed in war; their bodies will be dragged off by dogs; birds will eat them, and wild animals will devour what is left over. 
They come back in the evening, : snarling like dogs as they go about the city. 
You cut the hay and then cut the grass on the hillsides while the next crop of hay is growing. 
Take me with you, and we'll run away; : be my king and take me to your room. : We will be happy together, : drink deep, and lose ourselves in love. : No wonder all women love you! 
The king answered, “You are lazy and don't want to work, and that is why you ask me to let you go and offer sacrifices to the LORD. 
An employer who hires any fool that comes along is only hurting everybody concerned. 
The people stood there watching while the Jewish leaders jeered at him: “He saved others; let him save himself if he is the Messiah whom God has chosen!” 
As for us, our hope is that God will put us right with him; and this is what we wait for by the power of God's Spirit working through our faith. 
Women hurt other women just as moths damage clothing. 
And so, as soon as they heard the sound of the instruments, the people of all the nations, races, and languages bowed down and worshipped the gold statue which King Nebuchadnezzar had set up. 
On the third day of her fast Esther put on her royal robes and went and stood in the inner courtyard of the palace, facing the throne room. The king was inside, seated on the royal throne, facing the entrance. 
(The people of Gibeon were not Israelites; they were a small group of Amorites whom the Israelites had promised to protect, but Saul had tried to destroy them because of his zeal for the people of Israel and Judah.) 
I dressed you in embroidered gowns and gave you shoes of the best leather, a linen headband, and a silk cloak. 
Return to the Most High and turn away from sin. Have an intense hatred for wickedness. 
I know that I shall soon put off this mortal body, as our Lord Jesus Christ plainly told me. 
She makes clothes and belts, and sells them to merchants. 
When Paul finished, he knelt down with them and prayed. 
But he denied it in front of them all. “I don't know what you are talking about,” he answered, 
The LORD answered, “If her father had spat in her face, she would have to bear her disgrace for seven days. So let her be shut out of the camp for a week, and after that she can be brought back in.” 
You sent your messengers to boast to me that with all your chariots you had conquered the highest mountains of Lebanon. You boasted that there you cut down the tallest cedars and the finest cypress trees and that you reached the deepest parts of the forests. 
“Before long I will shake heaven and earth, land and sea. 
But a prophet went to the king and said to him, “Don't take these Israelite soldiers with you. The LORD is not with these troops from the Northern Kingdom. 
Then Peter and the other disciple went to the tomb. 
Judah had five sons in all. By his wife Bathshua, a Canaanite, he had three sons: Er, Onan, and Shelah. His eldest son, Er, was so evil that the LORD killed him. 
“But you people who are left in Judah must not disobey the LORD your God and refuse to live in this land. You must not say, ‘No, we will go and live in Egypt, where we won't face war any more or hear the call to battle or go hungry.’ If you say this, then the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, says, ‘If you are determined to go and live in Egypt, 
And if some home or town will not welcome you or listen to you, then leave that place and shake the dust off your feet.  
so that the next generation might learn them : and in turn should tell their children. 
Many miracles and wonders were being performed among the people by the apostles. All the believers met together in Solomon's Porch. 
Don't take a course of action that is dangerous, and don't make the same mistake twice.  
listen to them in heaven. Forgive the sins of your people and bring them back to the land which you gave to them and to their ancestors. 
He said to all the people, “This stone will be our witness. It has heard all the words that the LORD has spoken to us. So it will be a witness against you, to keep you from rebelling against your God.” 
If the mistake was made because of the ignorance of the community, they are to offer a bull as a burnt offering, a smell that pleases the LORD, with the proper grain offering and wine offering. In addition, they are to offer a male goat as a sin offering. 
it will be right for you to swear by my name. Then all the nations will ask me to bless them, and they will praise me.” 
You won't always be angry; you won't be cross with me for ever.’ Israel, that is what you said, but you did all the evil you could.” 
Present a burnt offering to the LORD at the beginning of each month: two young bulls, one ram, seven one-year-old male lambs, all without any defects. 
Having independent means or working for a living — both can make life pleasant, but it is better to find a treasure. 
I will make people and cattle increase in number. There will be more of you than ever before, and you will have many children. I will let you live there as you used to live, and I will make you more prosperous than ever. Then you will know that I am the LORD. 
As long as the world exists, there will be a time for planting and a time for harvest. There will always be cold and heat, summer and winter, day and night.”
I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and difficulties for Christ's sake. For when I am weak, then I am strong. 
The people of Judah will be victorious like soldiers who trample their enemies into the mud of the streets. They will fight because the LORD is with them, and they will defeat even the enemy horsemen. 
The emperor of Assyria will lead away naked the prisoners he captures from those two countries. Young and old, they will walk barefoot and naked, with their buttocks exposed, bringing shame on Egypt. 
“Tell these people that they must obey all my commands. They must not carry any load in through the gates of this city on the Sabbath. They must observe the Sabbath as a sacred day and must not do any work at all. 
Some Pharisees saw this and asked his disciples, “Why does your teacher eat with such people?” 
He will be a different person then, rubbing his hands, nodding his head, and spreading rumours about you.
Azariah, Johanan, 
If I knew he would, I would leap for joy, : no matter how great my pain. : I know that God is holy; : I have never opposed what he commands. 
Judith's slave woman was waiting outside the tent for Judith to go and pray, as she had done each night. Judith had also told Bagoas that she would be going out to pray as usual. 
So you will be the first to go into exile. Your feasts and banquets will come to an end. 
The people of Samaria rushed out and looted the Syrian camp. And, as the LORD had said, three kilogrammes of the best wheat or six kilogrammes of barley were sold for one piece of silver. 
Why not say, then, “Let us do evil so that good may come”? Some people, indeed, have insulted me by accusing me of saying this very thing! They will be condemned, as they should be. 
For the churches in Macedonia and Achaia have freely decided to give an offering to help the poor among God's people in Jerusalem. 
But it was to us that God made known his secret by means of his Spirit. The Spirit searches everything, even the hidden depths of God's purposes. 
we finally turned and went into the desert, along the road to the Gulf of Aqaba, as the LORD had commanded, and we spent a long time wandering about in the hill country of Edom. 
Then they will keep my laws and faithfully obey all my commands. They will be my people, and I will be their God. 
I want you to know, my brothers and sisters, that the things that have happened to me have really helped the progress of the gospel. 
Proclaim his glory to the nations, : his mighty deeds to all peoples. 
Its leaves were beautiful, and it had enough fruit on it to feed the whole world. Wild animals rested under it, and birds made their nests in its branches. 
Zilpah bore Jacob another son, 
But thieves and godless people live in peace, : though their only god is their own strength. 
For the Lord watches over the righteous : and listens to their prayers; : but he opposes those who do evil.” 
“If two brothers live on the same property and one of them dies, leaving no son, then his widow is not to be married to someone outside the family; it is the duty of the dead man's brother to marry her. 
He brings down powerful rulers : and reduces them to nothing. 
“ ‘I will bring on them endless disasters : and use all my arrows against them. 
So I paid fifteen pieces of silver and 150 kilogrammes of barley to buy her. 
A man named Lazarus, who lived in Bethany, was ill. Bethany was the town where Mary and her sister Martha lived. 
Many people spread their cloaks on the road, while others cut branches in the fields and spread them on the road. 
“There were two men who owed money to a moneylender,” Jesus began. “One owed him 500 silver coins, and the other owed him fifty.  
Don't laugh at the warning I am giving you! If you do, it will be even harder for you to escape. I have heard the LORD Almighty's decision to destroy the whole country. 
And in my great anger I will take revenge on all nations that have not obeyed me.”
In our life in the Lord, however, woman is not independent of man, nor is man independent of woman. 
So Herod asked Jesus many questions, but Jesus made no answer. 
who killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets, and persecuted us. How displeasing they are to God! How hostile they are to everyone! 
We were all in the field tying up sheaves of wheat, when my sheaf got up and stood up straight. Yours formed a circle round mine and bowed down to it.” 
The wicked are waiting to kill me, : but I will meditate on your laws. 
Be honest and you show that you have reverence for the LORD; be dishonest and you show that you do not. 
Then the king of Egypt spoke to Shiphrah and Puah, the two midwives who helped the Hebrew women. 
The time is coming when I will make the sun go down at noon and the earth grow dark in daytime. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken. 
Then God commanded, “Let there be a dome to divide the water and to keep it in two separate places”
For if such things as these are done when the wood is green, what will happen when it is dry?” 
Remember, LORD, what the Edomites did : the day Jerusalem was captured. : Remember how they kept saying, : “Tear it down to the ground!” 
to let them know what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying to them: there was a giant eagle with beautiful feathers and huge wings, spread wide. He flew to the Lebanon Mountains and broke off the top of a cedar tree, 
“Aaron is not going to enter the land which I promised to give to Israel; he is going to die, because the two of you rebelled against my command at Meribah. 
In the beginning, when God created the universe,  
Tiglath Pileser, the emperor of Assyria, invaded Israel, and Menahem gave him 34 tonnes of silver to gain his support in strengthening Menahem's power over the country. 
Just now, however, I am going to Jerusalem in the service of God's people there. 
Paltiel followed her all the way to the town of Bahurim, crying as he went. But when Abner said, “Go back home,” he did. 
Happy are those : who reject the advice of evil people, : who do not follow the example of sinners : or join those who have no use for God. 
but he was told of their plan. Day and night they watched the city gates in order to kill him. 
Then King Asa sent out an order throughout all Judah requiring everyone, without exception, to help carry away from Ramah the stones and timber that Baasha had been using to fortify it. With this material Asa fortified Mizpah and Geba, a city in the territory of Benjamin. 
For the trouble at that time will be far more terrible than any there has ever been, from the beginning of the world to this very day. Nor will there ever be anything like it again.  
The whole region, from Geba in the north to Rimmon in the south, will be made level. Jerusalem will tower above the land round it; the city will reach from the Benjamin Gate to the Corner Gate, where there had been an earlier gate, and from the Tower of Hananel to the royal winepresses. 
A devout person, even if he is not very intelligent, is better off than the cleverest of sinners. 
How glad and happy you will be, and how happy many others will be when he is born! 
Goshen, Holon, and Giloh: eleven cities, along with the towns round them. 
Those who speak in strange tongues do not speak to others but to God, because no one understands them. They are speaking secret truths by the power of the Spirit. 
The descendants of Joktan were the people of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah, 
Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah, 
The Lord is not slow to do what he has promised, as some think. Instead, he is patient with you, because he does not want anyone to be destroyed, but wants all to turn away from their sins. 
he listens to my cry for help : and will answer my prayer. 
“I have already told you that I am he,” Jesus said. “If, then, you are looking for me, let these others go.”  
Abram bowed down with his face touching the ground, and God said, 
So the LORD asked him, “What are you holding?” : “A stick,” he answered. 
The leaders of all the tribes of Israel were present at this gathering of God's people, and there were 400,000 foot soldiers. 
Some time later Paul said to Barnabas, “Let us go back and visit our brothers and sisters in every town where we preached the word of the Lord, and let us find out how they are getting on.” 
As for you, my brothers and sisters, you were called to be free. But do not let this freedom become an excuse for letting your physical desires control you. Instead, let love make you serve one another. 
Among them were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James and Joseph, and the wife of Zebedee. 
Think about what God has done. How can anyone straighten out what God has made crooked? 
It was almost time for the Passover Festival, so Jesus went to Jerusalem. 
There was an old prophet, a widow named Anna, daughter of Phanuel of the tribe of Asher. 
So put on God's armour now! Then when the evil day comes, you will be able to resist the enemy's attacks; and after fighting to the end, you will still hold your ground. 
who is faithless to her own husband and forgets her sacred vows. 
Their faces looked exactly like the faces I had seen by the River Chebar. Each creature moved straight ahead.
They can make an inexperienced person clever and teach young people how to be resourceful. 
The messengers went to every city in the territory of the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh, and as far north as the tribe of Zebulun, but people laughed at them and ridiculed them. 
Then Ahab called in a court official and told him to go and fetch Micaiah at once. 
If the LORD is pleased with us, he will take us there and give us that rich and fertile land. 
Everything else that Manasseh did, the prayer he made to his God, and the messages of the prophets who spoke to him in the name of the LORD, the God of Israel, are all recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel. 
Meanwhile the Israelite soldiers that Amaziah had not allowed to go into battle with him attacked the Judean cities between Samaria and Beth Horon, killed 3,000 men, and captured quantities of loot. 
A cheerful person with a good attitude will have a good appetite and enjoy his food.
No one should ask why things are as they are; : these questions will be answered at the right time. : He commanded, and the water piled up high, : great walls of water arose when he spoke. 
They knew why they were dying, because their horrible dreams had told them. 
and gave them to Aaron and his sons.
One day Ahab said to Naboth, “Let me have your vineyard; it is close to my palace, and I want to use the land for a vegetable garden. I will give you a better vineyard for it, or, if you prefer, I will pay you a fair price.” 
Her neighbours and relatives heard how wonderfully good the Lord had been to her, and they all rejoiced with her. 
to say to the people of Israel, “Keep the Sabbath, my day of rest, because it is a sign between you and me for all time to come, to show that I, the LORD, have made you my own people. 
As one of them was cutting down a tree, suddenly his iron axe head fell in the water. “What shall I do, sir?” he exclaimed to Elisha. “It was a borrowed axe!” 
Then he burnt on the altar the fat, the kidneys, and the best part of the liver, just as the LORD had commanded Moses. 
He made no difference between us and them; he forgave their sins because they believed. 
and carried it to the Temple. The priests and the Levites also moved the Tent of the LORD's presence and all its equipment to the Temple. 
As fresh water brings joy to the thirsty, : so God's people rejoice when he saves them.” 
Then the LORD ordered him, “Go with all your great strength and rescue Israel from the Midianites. I myself am sending you.” 
All of them have shaved their heads and cut off their beards. They have all made gashes on their hands, and everyone is wearing sackcloth. 
The men went on their way to map out the land after Joshua had given them these instructions: “Go all over the land and map it out, and come back to me. And then here in Shiloh I will consult the LORD for you by drawing lots.” 
I have taught you wisdom and the right way to live. 
The harbour was not a good one to spend the winter in; so most people were in favour of putting out to sea and trying to reach Phoenix, if possible, in order to spend the winter there. Phoenix is a harbour in Crete that faces south-west and north-west. 
Because the Edomites would not let the Israelites pass through their territory, the Israelites turned and went another way. 
The people of Israel will not remain in the LORD's land, but will have to go back to Egypt and will have to eat forbidden food in Assyria. 
Rehoboam went to Shechem, where all the people of northern Israel had gathered to make him king. 
“If someone lets his animals graze in a field or a vineyard and they stray away and eat up the crops growing in someone else's field, he must make good the loss with the crops from his own fields or vineyards. 
One day she said to her mistress, “I wish that my master could go to the prophet who lives in Samaria! He would cure him of his disease.” 
For when we were still helpless, Christ died for the wicked at the time that God chose. 
When Jesus got out of the boat, he saw this large crowd, and his heart was filled with pity for them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. So he began to teach them many things. 
The tree, so tall that it reached the sky, could be seen by everyone in the world. 
All the nations that you have created : will come and bow down to you; : they will praise your greatness. 
In the first month of one year, the time when the River Jordan overflowed its banks, they crossed the river, scattering the people who lived in the valleys both east and west of the river. 
When Judah saw her, he thought that she was a prostitute, because she had her face covered. 
I put two men in charge of governing the city of Jerusalem: my brother Hanani and Hananiah, commanding officer of the fortress. Hananiah was a reliable and God-fearing man without an equal. 
This desire for Wisdom can prepare you to rule a kingdom. 
Don't let my enemies gloat over my distress; : don't let them boast about my downfall! 
They have been unfaithful to the LORD; their children do not belong to him. So now they and their lands will soon be destroyed. 
One tenth of the men in Israel will provide food for the army, and the others will go and punish Gibeah for this immoral act that they have committed in Israel.” 
They said to him, “We cannot let our sister marry a man who is not circumcised; that would be a disgrace for us. 
“No pupil is greater than his teacher; no slave is greater than his master.  
The following spring he called up his men and marched with them to the city of Aphek to attack the Israelites. 
They told me that those who had survived and were back in the homeland were in great difficulty and that the foreigners who lived near by looked down on them. They also told me that the walls of Jerusalem were still broken down and that the gates had not been restored since the time they were burnt. 
The first son born to each of us we will take to the priests in the Temple and there, as required by the Law, dedicate him to God. We will also dedicate the first calf born to each of our cows, and the first lamb or kid born to each of our sheep or goats. 
He also had two daughters, Zeruiah and Abigail. : Jesse's daughter Zeruiah had three sons: Abishai, Joab, and Asahel. 
Among them was a woman who had suffered from severe bleeding for twelve years; she had spent all she had on doctors, but no one had been able to cure her. 
And just as the tongue can distinguish the flavours of different kinds of meat, so a sharp mind can detect lies. 
From the evening of the fourteenth day of the first month to the evening of the 21st day, you must not eat any bread made with yeast. 
Among the people in Jabesh they found 400 young virgins, so they brought them to the camp at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan. 
As for us, we proclaim the crucified Christ, a message that is offensive to the Jews and nonsense to the Gentiles; 
Call together all the prophets of Baal, all his worshippers, and all his priests. No one is excused; I am going to offer a great sacrifice to Baal, and whoever is not present will be put to death.” (This was a trick on the part of Jehu by which he meant to kill all the worshippers of Baal.) 
Be alert, be on the watch! Your enemy, the Devil, roams round like a roaring lion, looking for someone to devour. 
My children, listen to what I have to say about proper speech; do as I teach you and you will never get trapped. 
Now this is what the Sovereign LORD is saying, “Just as a vine is taken from the forest and burnt, so I will take the people who live in Jerusalem 
I, the LORD, will give you proof that I will punish you in this place and that my promise to bring destruction on you will come true. 
I want you to stay in Ephesus, just as I urged you when I was on my way to Macedonia. Some people there are teaching false doctrines, and you must order them to stop. 
I strike them down, and they cannot rise; : they lie defeated before me. 
You will be victorious over your enemies; 
You yourself will suffer a painful disease of the intestines that will grow worse day by day.” 
Then the trees said to the fig tree, ‘You come and be our king.’ 
They take no notice of what the LORD has done : or of what he has made; : so he will punish them : and destroy them for ever. 
Zechariah, a descendant of Uzziel through Isshiah, Micah's brother; 
As they were sitting at the table, the word of the LORD came to the old prophet, 
On that day the righteous, full of confidence, will stand before those who oppressed them and made light of their labours. 
When Joseph came to them in the morning, he saw that they were upset. 
Early the next morning they brought some animals to burn as sacrifices and others to eat as fellowship offerings. The people sat down to a feast, which turned into an orgy of drinking and sex. 
(I was long convinced of this, so after thinking it over I put it in writing.) 
God has sent me as a prophet to warn his people Israel. Yet wherever I go, you try to trap me like a bird. Even in God's Temple the people are the prophet's enemies. 
“But he endured the suffering that should have been ours, : the pain that we should have borne. : All the while we thought that his suffering : was punishment sent by God. 
You have not taken care of the weak ones, healed those that are sick, bandaged those that are hurt, brought back those that wandered off, or looked for those that were lost. Instead, you treated them cruelly. 
Then we can preach the Good News in other countries beyond you and shall not have to boast about work already done in someone else's field. 
“Will the Lord always reject us? : Will he never again be pleased with us? 
But Joshua had ordered the people not to shout, not to say a word until he gave the order. 
the time for tearing and the time for mending, : the time for silence and the time for talk. 
Don't feel that you just have to have all sorts of fancy food, and don't be a glutton over any food. 
The LORD will let everyone hear his majestic voice and feel the force of his anger. There will be flames, cloudbursts, hailstones, and torrents of rain. 
But when the believers gathered round him, he got up and went back into the town. The next day he and Barnabas went to Derbe. 
I will rescue you and this city of Jerusalem from the emperor of Assyria, and I will continue to protect the city.” 
Abraham reckoned that God was able to raise Isaac from death — and, so to speak, Abraham did receive Isaac back from death. 
I think of it constantly and my spirit is depressed. 
He ordered the priests and the Levites to go to the cities of Judah and collect from all the people enough money to make the annual repairs on the Temple. He told them to act promptly, but the Levites delayed, 
“Don't hurt the boy or do anything to him,” he said. “Now I know that you honour and obey God, because you have not kept back your only son from him.” 
I do not want it to appear that I am trying to frighten you with my letters. 
Tobias took care of Edna and Raguel in their old age and showed them great respect. When at last they died, he buried them at Ecbatana. Tobias inherited Raguel's estate, as he had inherited the estate of his father Tobit. 
The LORD Almighty gave this message to Zechariah
Then Joshua called the twelve men he had chosen, 
Then Moses, together with the levitical priests, said to all the people of Israel, “Give me your attention, people of Israel, and listen to me. Today you have become the people of the LORD your God; 
Clan of Bani: Meshullam, Malluch, Adaiah, Jashub, Sheal, and Jeremoth 
Speak the word and set me free from this life; : then I will no longer have to hear these insults. 
But the truth is that Christ has been raised from death, as the guarantee that those who sleep in death will also be raised. 
Do not be like them. Your Father already knows what you need before you ask him.  
I watch how bitterly everyone mocks me. 
Samuel ruled Israel as long as he lived. 
They are always ready to tell lies; : dishonesty instead of truth rules the land. : The LORD says, : “My people do one evil thing after another, : and do not acknowledge me as their God.” 
And Paul concluded: “You are to know, then, that God's message of salvation has been sent to the Gentiles. They will listen!” 
They tie on to people's backs loads that are heavy and hard to carry, yet they aren't willing even to lift a finger to help them carry those loads.  
As the Scriptures say: : “There is no one who is righteous, 
But they answered, “We cannot let our sister be treated like a common whore.”
When the kings who were subject to Hadadezer realized that they had been defeated by the Israelites, they made peace with them and became their subjects. And the Syrians were afraid to help the Ammonites any more.
The main room was panelled with cedar and overlaid with fine gold, in which were worked designs of palm trees and chain patterns. 
Then he went back upstairs, broke bread, and ate. After talking with them for a long time, even until sunrise, Paul left. 
In this matter, then, no man should do wrong to his fellow-Christian or take advantage of him. We have told you this before, and we strongly warned you that the Lord will punish those who do that. 
I saw the people of Cushan afraid : and the people of Midian tremble. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “denounce the country of Ammon. 
Jehu, Azariah, 
“I have told you this, so that you will not give up your faith.  
As for me, I am in your power! Do with me whatever you think is fair and right. 
The prophet Isaiah son of Amoz recorded all the other things that King Uzziah did during his reign. 
as they move at God's will. : They do all that God commands, : everywhere throughout the world. 
Moses did as the LORD commanded. 
and he said, “This is what the LORD says: ‘Dig ditches all over this dry stream bed. 
When some Pharisees gathered together, Jesus asked them, 
Your almighty power, Lord, created the world out of material that had no form at all. You could easily have punished those people by sending an invasion of bears or savage lions. 
Then he told her, “Stand at the door of the tent, and if anyone comes and asks you if someone is here, say no.” 
He asked about their health and then said, “You told me about your old father — how is he? Is he still alive and well?” 
Then once again I lay face downwards in the LORD's presence for forty days and nights and did not eat or drink anything. I did this because you had sinned against the LORD and had made him angry. 
so that you may again take possession of the land where your ancestors once lived. And he will make you more prosperous and more numerous than your ancestors ever were. 
Too much honey is bad for you, and so is trying to win too much praise. 
If anyone tries to harm them, fire comes out of their mouths and destroys their enemies; and in this way, whoever tries to harm them will be killed. 
Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters, but his relatives had fewer children, and the tribe of Simeon did not grow as much as the tribe of Judah did. 
“Lord, I look to you for help. 
You have said, ‘It's useless to serve God. What's the use of doing what he says or of trying to show the LORD Almighty that we are sorry for what we have done? 
The witnesses are to throw the first stones, and then the rest of the people are to stone that person; in this way you will get rid of this evil. 
People stay in hiding when the wicked come to power. But when they fall from power, the righteous will rule again.
How painful it is to the LORD : when one of his people dies! 
“Salt is good, but if it loses its saltiness, there is no way to make it salty again.  
Shechem, the city of refuge in the hills of Ephraim, Gezer, 
We had intimate talks with each other : and worshipped together in the Temple. 
but they answered, “We have made our solemn promise to them in the name of the LORD God of Israel. Now we cannot harm them. 
The lamb, the flour, and the olive oil are to be offered to the LORD every morning for ever.” 
Then go to the king and say to him what I tell you to say.” Then Joab told her what to say. 
The whole community learnt that Aaron had died, and they all mourned for him for thirty days.
But if you do not keep your promise, I warn you that you will be sinning against the LORD. Make no mistake about it; you will be punished for your sin. 
Jehoshaphat died and was buried in the royal tombs in David's City and his son Jehoram succeeded him as king. 
There were 956 families of this tribe living there. All the men named above were heads of families. 
Ramoth, and Anem. 
You like to receive praise from one another, but you do not try to win praise from the one who alone is God; how, then, can you believe me?  
(Manna was like small seeds, whitish yellow in colour. 
“But if the charge is true and there is no proof that she was a virgin, 
Elkanah, Ebiasaph, Assir, 
Destroy its horses and chariots! : Death to its hired soldiers — : how weak they are! : Destroy its treasures; : plunder and loot. 
You love what is right and hate what is wrong. : That is why God, your God, has chosen you : and has given you the joy of an honour far greater : than he gave to your companions.” 
Many people came to Jerusalem, bringing offerings to the LORD and gifts to Hezekiah, so that from then on all the nations held Hezekiah in honour. 
They made two more coverings, one of rams' skin dyed red and the other of fine leather, to serve as an outer cover. 
You are to take the bull that is offered as a sacrifice for sin and burn it at the specified place outside the temple area. 
And I asked my master, ‘What if she will not come with me?’ 
When they received the message, they all attacked the Assyrians and chased them as far as Choba, slaughtering them as they went. Even the people of Jerusalem and others living in the mountains joined the attack when the messengers told them what had happened in the Assyrian camp. The people of the regions of Gilead and Galilee blocked the path of the retreating Assyrians and inflicted heavy losses on them. They pursued them as far as the region round Damascus. 
They will know that I am the LORD and that my warnings were not empty threats.” 
Do you want to avoid death? Reverence for the LORD is a fountain of life. 
Later, if you no longer want her, you are to let her go free. Since you forced her to have intercourse with you, you cannot treat her as a slave and sell her. 
I will tie you up so that you cannot turn from one side to the other until the siege is over. 
You people in the city do not honour your parents. You cheat foreigners and take advantage of widows and orphans. 
It was King Hezekiah who blocked the outlet for the Spring of Gihon and channelled the water to flow through a tunnel to a point inside the walls of Jerusalem. Hezekiah succeeded in everything he did, 
The soldiers roar like lions that have killed an animal and are carrying it off where no one can take it away from them. 
You must go back to the country where I was born and get a wife for my son Isaac from among my relatives.” 
Suppose someone takes a piece of consecrated meat from a sacrifice and carries it in a fold of his robe. If he then lets his robe touch any bread, cooked food, wine, olive oil, or any kind of food at all, will it make that food consecrated also?” : When the question was asked, the priests answered, “No.” 
He has human power, but we have the LORD our God to help us and to fight our battles.” The people were encouraged by these words of their king. 
Your sons might marry those foreign women, who would lead them to be unfaithful to me and to worship their pagan gods. 
and two frames for the corners. 
Do not take your wife's sister as one of your wives, as long as your wife is living. 
It was faith that made Abraham offer his son Isaac as a sacrifice when God put Abraham to the test. Abraham was the one to whom God had made the promise, yet he was ready to offer his only son as a sacrifice. 
Then I placed cups and bowls full of wine before the Rechabites, and I said to them, “Have some wine.” 
For we cannot stop speaking of what we ourselves have seen and heard.” 
and set up camp beside the spring in the valley near Bethulia. The camp was so wide that it spread out towards the town of Dothan as far as Balbaim, and so long that it stretched from Bethulia to Cyamon, which faces the Valley of Jezreel. 
But these men will agree to live among us and be one people with us only on condition that we circumcise all our males, as they are circumcised. 
carry it all outside the camp to the ritually clean place where the ashes are poured out, and there he shall burn it on a wood fire. 
The 24 elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshipped God, who was seated on the throne. They said, “Amen! Praise God!” 
because of the great things the Mighty God has done for me. : His name is holy; 
Bury them all in the ground; : bind them in the world of the dead. 
Before the words were out of his mouth, a voice spoke from heaven, “King Nebuchadnezzar, listen to what I say! Your royal power is now taken away from you. 
The man shall bring a ram to the entrance of the Tent of my presence as his repayment offering, 
They love the best places at feasts and the reserved seats in the synagogues;  
Praise the LORD, people of Israel; : praise him, you priests of God! 
Jehu called the people of Samaria together and said, “King Ahab served the god Baal a little, but I will serve him much more. 
He will break the power of the wicked, : but the power of the righteous will be increased.
They have said that the prophets are nothing but windbags and that they have no message from the LORD. The LORD God Almighty said to me, “Jeremiah, because these people have said such things, I will make my words like a fire in your mouth. The people will be like wood, and the fire will burn them up.” 
and on the following day, the 23rd day of the seventh month, Solomon sent the people home. They were happy about all the blessings that the LORD had given to his people Israel, to David, and to Solomon. 
The bows of strong soldiers are broken, : but the weak grow strong. 
Has any human being ever lived after hearing the living God speak from a fire? 
Because we have this hope, we are very bold. 
All the other events of his reign, from beginning to end, are recorded in The History of the Kings of Judah and Israel. 
Then Moses took the breast and presented it as a special gift to the LORD. It was Moses' part of the ordination ram. Moses did everything just as the LORD had commanded. 
Blow the trumpet on Mount Zion; : give orders for a fast and call an assembly! 
I would fly far away : and make my home in the desert. 
People of Mareshah, the LORD will hand you over to an enemy, who is going to capture your town. The leaders of Israel will go and hide in the cave at Adullam. 
We can sell worthless wheat at a high price. We'll find a poor person who can't pay his debts, not even the price of a pair of sandals, and we'll buy him as a slave.” 
and your mouth like the finest wine. : Then let the wine flow straight to my lover, : flowing over his lips and teeth. 
Your country has been devastated, and your cities have been burnt to the ground. While you look on, foreigners take over your land and bring everything to ruin. 
The kingdom of Israel will not be jealous of Judah any more, and Judah will not be the enemy of Israel. 
But Jesus would not let him. Instead, he told him, “Go back home to your family and tell them how much the Lord has done for you and how kind he has been to you.” 
When the Syrians attacked, Elisha prayed, “O LORD, strike these men blind!” The LORD answered his prayer and struck them blind. 
Then all Israel could see how good it is to follow the Lord. 
So do not worry about tomorrow; it will have enough worries of its own. There is no need to add to the troubles each day brings.
their Hebrew slaves, both male and female, so that no one would have a fellow-Israelite as a slave. 
They wait for you like robbers and cause many men to be unfaithful. 
He said, “Tell your brother Aaron that only at the proper time is he to go behind the curtain into the Most Holy Place, because that is where I appear in a cloud above the lid on the Covenant Box. If he disobeys, he will be killed. 
There were no other women in the whole world as beautiful as Job's daughters. Their father gave them a share of the inheritance along with their brothers. 
The farmer who has done the hard work should have the first share of the harvest. 
and keep your faith and a clear conscience. Some people have not listened to their conscience and have made a ruin of their faith. 
But if Christ lives in you, the Spirit is life for you because you have been put right with God, even though your bodies are going to die because of sin. 
Hezron had three sons: Jerahmeel, Ram, and Caleb. 
At dawn the woman came and fell down at the door of the old man's house, where her husband was. She was still there when daylight came. 
When Jacob and his sons started to leave, great fear fell on the people of the nearby towns, and they did not pursue them. 
When Abram was 75 years old, he started out from Haran, as the LORD had told him to do; and Lot went with him. 
The LORD is good to everyone who trusts in him, 
When the time was up, they looked healthier and stronger than all those who had been eating the royal food. 
“When the seven years had passed,” said the king, “I looked up at the sky, and my sanity returned. I praised the Supreme God and gave honour and glory to the one who lives for ever. : “He will rule for ever, : and his kingdom will last for all time. 
No one will eat or drink with anyone to comfort him when a loved one dies. No one will show sympathy, not even for someone who has lost his father or mother. 
When Hushai arrived, Absalom said to him, “This is the advice that Ahithophel has given us; shall we follow it? If not, you tell us what to do.” 
Since we are God's children, we should not suppose that his nature is anything like an image of gold or silver or stone, shaped by human art and skill. 
One day Sennacherib cursed God, the King of Heaven; God punished him, and Sennacherib had to retreat from Judah. On his way back to Media he was so furious that he killed many Israelites. But I secretly removed the bodies and buried them; and when Sennacherib later searched for the bodies, he could not find them. 
David picked up Goliath's head and took it to Jerusalem, but he kept Goliath's weapons in his own tent. 
One day Saul was in Gibeah, sitting under a tamarisk tree on a hill, with his spear in his hand, and all his officers were standing round him. He was told that David and his men had been found, 
People sinned there instead of offering the proper daily sacrifices, and true religion was thrown to the ground. The horn was successful in everything it did. 
When I set fire to Egypt and all her defenders are killed, then they will know that I am the LORD. 
and then he said to the Council, “Fellow-Israelites, be careful what you do to these men. 
The Sovereign LORD said, “You have sinned too long, you rulers of Israel! Stop your violence and oppression. Do what is right and just. You must never again drive my people off their land. I, the Sovereign LORD, am telling you this. 
I will keep you safe, and you will not be put to death. You will escape with your life because you have put your trust in me. I, the LORD, have spoken.”The LORD spoke to me after Nebuzaradan, the commanding officer, had set me free at Ramah. I had been taken there in chains, along with all the other people from Jerusalem and Judah who were being taken away as prisoners to Babylonia. 
I am the LORD your God; I brought you out of Egypt to be your God. I am the LORD.”
“Sir, land worth only 400 pieces of silver — what is that between us? Bury your wife in it.” 
Then the LORD ordered the fish to spew Jonah up on the beach, and it did.
Then the Devil took him up and showed him in a second all the kingdoms of the world. 
Because Rebecca had no children, Isaac prayed to the LORD for her. The LORD answered his prayer, and Rebecca became pregnant. 
From the first day of the festival to the last they read a part of God's Law every day. They celebrated for seven days, and on the eighth day there was a closing ceremony, as required in the Law.
Hazar Shual, Balah, Ezem, 
But I know that you and your officials do not yet fear the LORD God.” 
“Tell the Israelites that from the property they receive they must give the Levites some cities to live in and pasture land round the cities. 
Then you and your children will live a long time in the land that the LORD your God promised to give to your ancestors. You will live there as long as there is a sky above the earth. 
and said, ‘The LORD our God showed us his greatness and his glory when we heard him speak from the fire! Today we have seen that it is possible for a human being to continue to live, even though God has spoken to him. 
But we'll see if that's true! Let's see what will happen when it's time for them to die! 
Then the Devil took Jesus to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in all their greatness. 
These are the spies Moses sent to explore the land. He changed the name of Hoshea son of Nun to Joshua. 
The peoples of the desert will bow down before him; : his enemies will throw themselves to the ground. 
He did not, however, execute their children, but followed what the LORD had commanded in the Law of Moses: “Parents are not to be put to death for crimes committed by their children, and children are not to be put to death for crimes committed by their parents; a person is to be put to death only for a crime he himself has committed.” 
And why not? Because they did not depend on faith but on what they did. And so they stumbled over the “stumbling stone” 
“So, Jeremiah, you will speak all these words to my people, but they will not listen to you; you will call them, but they will not answer. 
Then the neighbouring nations that have survived will know that I, the LORD, rebuild ruined cities and replant waste fields. I, the LORD, have promised that I would do this — and I will.” 
“Yes, Your Majesty,” they answered. “We are ready to do whatever you say.” 
May no one ever be kind to him : or care for the orphans he leaves behind. 
“So this is what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying to you. This city is indeed a cooking pot, but what is the meat? The corpses of those you have killed! You will not be here — I will throw you out of the city! 
Then Solomon went to Eziongeber and Elath, ports on the shore of the Gulf of Aqaba, in the land of Edom. 
On each bank of the stream all kinds of trees will grow to provide food. Their leaves will never wither, and they will never stop bearing fruit. They will have fresh fruit every month, because they are watered by the stream that flows from the Temple. The trees will provide food, and their leaves will be used for healing people.” 
“When we were at Mount Sinai, the LORD our God said to us, ‘You have stayed long enough at this mountain. 
“It is better to pray sincerely and to please God by helping the poor than to be rich and dishonest. It is better to give to the poor than to store up gold. 
The king said, “I will let you go to sacrifice to the LORD, your God, in the desert, if you do not go very far. Pray for me.” 
King Xerxes then said to Queen Esther and Mordecai, the Jew, “Look, I have hanged Haman for his plot against the Jews, and I have given Esther his property. 
“And when you fast, do not put on a sad face as the hypocrites do. They neglect their appearance so that everyone will see that they are fasting. I assure you, they have already been paid in full.  
Caleb drove the descendants of Anak out of the city — the clans of Sheshai, Ahiman, and Talmai. 
“Don't harm my chosen servants; : do not touch my prophets.” 
Zedekiah was taken to King Nebuchadnezzar, who was in the city of Riblah, and there Nebuchadnezzar passed sentence on him. 
They were descendants of Abihail son of Huri, whose ancestors were traced back as follows: Abihail, Huri, Jaroah, Gilead, Michael, Jeshishai, Jahdo, Buz. 
So I will attack you like a lion. Like a leopard I will lie in wait along your path. 
I assure you that many prophets and many of God's people wanted very much to see what you see, but they could not, and to hear what you hear, but they did not. 
The LORD your God is bringing you into a fertile land — a land that has rivers and springs, and underground streams gushing out into the valleys and hills; 
Abram brought the animals to God, cut them in half, and placed the halves opposite each other in two rows; but he did not cut up the birds. 
Jairus, an official of the local synagogue, arrived, and when he saw Jesus, he threw himself down at his feet 
I will attack this sinful people and punish them. Nations will join together against them, and they will be punished for their many sins. 
King David consulted with all the officers in command of units of a thousand men and units of a hundred men. 
and at once got into a boat with his disciples and went to the district of Dalmanutha. 
“My people, do not be afraid, : people of Israel, do not be terrified. : I will rescue you from that distant land, : from the land where you are prisoners. : You will come back home and live in peace; : you will be secure, and no one will make you afraid. 
Anyone who steals an animal from the poor to offer as a sacrifice is like someone who kills a boy before his father's eyes. 
and died at a ripe old age; and his sons Esau and Jacob buried him.
When that time comes, Israel will rank with Egypt and Assyria, and these three nations will be a blessing to all the world. 
So says the Lord, who made this known long ago.’ 
It was faith that made Abraham able to become a father, even though he was too old and Sarah herself could not have children. He trusted God to keep his promise. 
Whoever is meant to be captured will surely be captured; whoever is meant to be killed by the sword will surely be killed by the sword. This calls for endurance and faith on the part of God's people.” 
Voices of terror will scream in their ears, : and robbers attack when they think they are safe. 
Then he took the children in his arms, placed his hands on each of them, and blessed them. 
The seeds that fell on rocky ground stand for those who hear the message and receive it gladly. But it does not sink deep into them; they believe only for a while but when the time of testing comes, they fall away.  
Now choose twelve men, one from each of the tribes of Israel. 
The LORD will bless you, as he has promised. You will lend money to many nations, but you will not have to borrow from any; you will have control over many nations, but no nation will have control over you. 
His parents are to take him before the leaders of the town where he lives and make him stand trial. 
Light flashes when he sneezes, : and his eyes glow like the rising sun. 
A donkey is content when eating grass, : and a cow is quiet when eating hay. 
If the spot spreads, the priest shall pronounce him unclean; he is diseased. 
The Israelites were subject to Eglon for eighteen years. 
No one was opposed to the plan except Jonathan son of Asahel and Jahzeiah son of Tikvah, who had the support of Meshullam and of Shabbethai, a Levite. 
Some men from Jericho went to Elisha and said, “As you know, sir, this is a fine city, but the water is bad and causes miscarriages.” 
I will tell of your goodness; : all day long I will speak of your salvation, : though it is more than I can understand. 
They have not known the way in which God puts people right with himself, and instead, they have tried to set up their own way; and so they did not submit themselves to God's way of putting people right. 
Remember, O God, how those people defiled both the office of priest and the covenant you made with the priests and the Levites. 
Hiram was extremely pleased when he received Solomon's message, and he said, “Praise the LORD today for giving David such a wise son to succeed him as king of that great nation!” 
He committed the same sins as his father and was not completely loyal to the LORD his God, as his great-grandfather David had been. 
“But if his descendants disobey my law : and do not live according to my commands, 
Then Jesus touched their eyes and said, “Let it happen, then, just as you believe!” — 
Cyrus gave them back the bowls and cups that King Nebuchadnezzar had taken from the Temple in Jerusalem and had put in the temple of his gods. 
God himself is our leader and his priests are here with trumpets, ready to blow them and call us to battle against you. People of Israel, don't fight against the LORD, the God of your ancestors! You can't win!” 
David answered, “I was dancing to honour the LORD, who chose me instead of your father and his family to make me the leader of his people Israel. And I will go on dancing to honour the LORD, 
That same day, Tobit remembered the money that he had left with Gabael at Rages in Media. 
So they proposed two men: Joseph, who was called Barsabbas (also known as Justus), and Matthias. 
He has never commanded anyone to be wicked or given anyone permission to sin.
And it is the will of him who sent me that I should not lose any of all those he has given me, but that I should raise them all to life on the last day.  
Create a pure heart in me, O God, : and put a new and loyal spirit in me. 
and in the regions of Carmel, Gilead, northern Galilee, and the Valley of Jezreel. 
Jonathan said, “I'll do anything you want.” 
I heard the angel in charge of the waters say, “The judgements you have made are just, O Holy One, you who are and who were! 
Many nations have gathered to attack you. They say, “Jerusalem must be destroyed! We will see this city in ruins!” 
So, as King Josiah had commanded, everything was done that day for the worship of the LORD, the keeping of the Passover Festival, and the offering of burnt offerings on the altar. 
From this bull he shall take all the fat, the fat on the internal organs, 
In charge of the palace servants: Ahishar : In charge of the forced labour: Adoniram son of Abda 
Everyone on earth worships you; : they sing praises to you, : they sing praises to your name.” 
When they were all on the other side, the priests with the LORD's Covenant Box went on ahead of the people. 
Some will be killed by the sword, and others will be taken as prisoners to all countries; and the heathen will trample over Jerusalem until their time is up. 
Your commandment is with me all the time : and makes me wiser than my enemies. 
People from all nations, tribes, languages, and races will look at their bodies for three and a half days and will not allow them to be buried. 
“Tomorrow about this time I will send you a man from the tribe of Benjamin; anoint him as ruler of my people Israel, and he will rescue them from the Philistines. I have seen the suffering of my people and have heard their cries for help.” 
You have turned cities into ruins : and destroyed their fortifications. : The palaces which our enemies built : are gone for ever. 
The LORD said to Joshua, “Today I have removed from you the disgrace of being slaves in Egypt.” That is why the place was named Gilgal, the name it still has. 
Does your doing right benefit God, : or does your being good help him at all? 
I turned away angry for only a moment, : but I will show you my love for ever.” : So says the LORD who saves you. 
And the LORD said, “Obey the commands I give and do not follow the practices of the people who lived in the land before you, and do not make yourselves unclean by doing any of these things. I am the LORD your God.”
The group presented them to the apostles, who prayed and placed their hands on them. 
So you actually admit that you are the descendants of those who murdered the prophets!  
May God the Father and Jesus Christ, the Father's Son, give us grace, mercy, and peace; may they be ours in truth and love. 
(Jesus had not yet arrived in the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him.) 
May Almighty God bless your marriage and give you many children, so that you will become the father of many nations! 
By means of miracles and wonders that terrified our enemies, you used your power and might to bring your people Israel out of Egypt. 
Righteous people, however, will find rest, even if they die young. 
any animals that have divided hoofs and that also chew the cud. 
That very same hour she arrived and gave thanks to God and spoke about the child to all who were waiting for God to set Jerusalem free. 
May God be with all of you who are his people. You are to go to Jerusalem and rebuild the Temple of the LORD, the God of Israel, the God who is worshipped in Jerusalem. 
If someone dedicates to the LORD a field that he has bought, 
Anyone who strikes you strikes what is most precious to me.” : So the LORD Almighty sent me with this message for the nations that had plundered his people
He will not shout or raise his voice : or make loud speeches in the streets. 
Instead, they have been stubborn and have worshipped the idols of Baal as their ancestors taught them to do. 
Don't think you have to have everything you want, and then spend your energy trying to get it. 
“If you happen to see your enemy's cow or donkey running loose, take it back to him. 
So Isaac left and set up his camp in the Valley of Gerar, where he stayed for some time. 
fighting all the way beyond Bethaven. The LORD saved Israel that day. 
To him who by means of his power working in us is able to do so much more than we can ever ask for, or even think of
But even in the desert they defied me. They broke my laws and rejected my commands, which bring life to anyone who obeys them. They completely profaned the Sabbath. I was ready to let them feel the force of my anger there in the desert and destroy them. 
Returning a kindness is like a grain offering; giving to the poor is like a thanksgiving offering. 
But this is not the way it is with you; rather, the greatest one among you must be like the youngest, and the leader must be like the servant.  
So they gathered them all up and filled twelve baskets with the pieces left over from the five barley loaves which the people had eaten. 
In this way your descendants who have never heard the Law of the LORD your God will hear it. And so they will learn to obey him as long as they live in the land that you are about to occupy across the Jordan.” 
So Darius the emperor issued orders for a search to be made in the royal records that were kept in Babylon. 
We would certainly not rebel against the LORD or stop following him now by building an altar to burn offerings on or for grain offerings or sacrifices. We would not build any other altar than the altar of the LORD our God that stands in front of the Tent of his presence.” 
put out fierce fires, escaped being killed by the sword. They were weak, but became strong; they were mighty in battle and defeated the armies of foreigners. 
Next they shall spread a blue cloth over the gold altar, put a fine leather cover over it, and then insert the carrying poles. 
Araunah looked down and saw the king and his officials coming up to him. He threw himself on the ground in front of David 
All his works are beautiful, : down to the smallest and faintest spark of light. 
You can survive if you say and do what is right. Don't use your power to cheat the poor and don't accept bribes. Don't join with those who plan to commit murder or to do other evil things. 
Now turn from your sins! If you don't, I will come to you soon and fight against those people with the sword that comes out of my mouth. 
The LORD says, : “Sing with joy for Israel, : the greatest of the nations. : Sing your song of praise, : ‘The LORD has saved his people; : he has rescued all who are left.’ 
One of the soldiers, however, plunged his spear into Jesus' side, and at once blood and water poured out. 
“Then the LORD said to me, ‘Look, I have made King Sihon and his land helpless before you; take his land and occupy it.’ 
He also made a round tank of bronze, 2.2 metres deep, 4.4 metres in diameter, and 13.2 metres in circumference. 
On our behalf Jesus has gone in there before us, and has become a high priest for ever, in the priestly order of Melchizedek.
If you do this, as God commands, you will not wear yourself out, and all these people can go home with their disputes settled.” 
and teach them to obey everything I have commanded you. And I will be with you always, to the end of the age.”
In addition, Nebuzaradan, the commanding officer, took away as prisoners Seraiah the High Priest, Zephaniah the priest next in rank, and the three other important temple officials. 
Don't let evil people worry you; don't be envious of them. 
Nebuchadnezzar and his entire army returned to Nineveh with all the loot taken in battle. There they relaxed and feasted for four months.
In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ we command these people and warn them to lead orderly lives and work to earn their own living. 
and they will give it to Eleazar the priest. It is to be taken outside the camp and killed in his presence.  
Paul answered, “My fellow-Israelites, I did not know that he was the High Priest. The scripture says, ‘You must not speak evil of the ruler of your people.’ ” 
It was the Devil's jealousy that brought death into the world, and those who belong to the Devil are the ones who will die.
Everything that happens in this world happens at the time God chooses. 
So when the men who were the first to be hired came to be paid, they thought they would get more; but they too were given a silver coin each.  
And so the Law was in charge of us until Christ came, in order that we might then be put right with God through faith. 
A shameless person can make begging sound sweet, but something inside him burns.
He held seven stars in his right-hand, and a sharp two-edged sword came out of his mouth. His face was as bright as the midday sun. 
Everything else that Jehoshaphat did, from the beginning of his reign to its end, is recorded in The History of Jehu Son of Hanani, which is a part of The History of the Kings of Israel. 
Keep away from me, you evil people! : The LORD hears my weeping; 
I will send dangerous animals among you, and they will kill your children, destroy your livestock, and leave so few of you that your roads will be deserted. 
Jesus ordered him, “Don't tell anyone, but go straight to the priest and let him examine you; then to prove to everyone that you are cured, offer the sacrifice as Moses ordered.” 
The commander went over to Paul, arrested him, and ordered him to be bound with two chains. Then he asked, “Who is this man, and what has he done?” 
So Tobit called Tobias and said to him, “My son, when I die, give me a proper burial. And after I'm gone, show respect to your mother. Take care of her for the rest of her life, and when she dies, bury her beside me. Remember, she risked her life to bring you into this world, so try to make her happy and never do anything that would worry her. 
“This is what I am going to do to my vineyard; I will take away the hedge round it, break down the wall that protects it, and let wild animals eat it and trample it down. 
I saw a hand stretched out towards me, and it was holding a scroll. 
Our kings, our rulers, and our ancestors have acted shamefully and sinned against you, Lord. 
“But now, O God, what can we say after all that has happened? We have again disobeyed the commands 
Six days later Jesus took with him Peter and the brothers James and John and led them up a high mountain where they were alone. 
and then he, the officers, the royal bodyguard, and the palace guards escorted the king from the Temple to the palace, followed by all the people. Joash entered by the Guard Gate and took his place on the throne. 
Anyone who touches the man with the discharge must wash his clothes and have a bath, and he remains unclean until evening. 
Abram put his trust in the LORD, and because of this the LORD was pleased with him and accepted him. 
He doesn't cheat or rob anyone. He returns what a borrower gives him as security; he feeds the hungry and gives clothing to the naked. 
“Anyone who commits murder shall be put to death, 
They answered, “Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved — you and your family.” 
Jesus said to them, “Come with me, and I will teach you to catch people.”  
God created the heavens and stretched them out; : he fashioned the earth and all that lives there; : he gave life and breath to all its people. : And now the LORD God says to his servant, 
Unless you learn what you can while you are young, you will never be wise when you reach old age. 
Tobias went up to him, holding the fish's gall-bladder in his hand. He blew on his father's eyes and steadied him. “Don't worry now, father,” he said. 
and the thin ears of corn swallowed the full ones. The king woke up and realized that he had been dreaming. 
As he came near Bethphage and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, he sent two disciples ahead 
From the time Aaron enters the Most Holy Place to perform the ritual of purification until he comes out, there must be no one in the Tent. When he has performed the ritual for himself, his family, and the whole community, 
Stay away from your enemies and be on guard against your friends. 
fine linen; blue, purple, and red wool; cloth made of goats' hair; 
The people of the earth will be happy because of the death of these two. They will celebrate and send presents to each other, because those two prophets brought much suffering upon the earth. 
It is the duty of priests to teach the true knowledge of God. People should go to them to learn my will, because they are the messengers of the LORD Almighty. 
It is no sin not to make a vow to the LORD, 
Clans of temple workmen who returned from exile
Whenever you go into a town and are made welcome, eat what is set before you,  
The child grew and developed in body and spirit. He lived in the desert until the day when he appeared publicly to the people of Israel.
There was another famine in the land besides the earlier one during the time of Abraham. Isaac went to Abimelech, king of the Philistines, at Gerar. 
“What shall we do with these men?” they asked. “Everyone in Jerusalem knows that this extraordinary miracle has been performed by them, and we cannot deny it. 
the Arvadites, the Zemarites, and the Hamathites. The different tribes of the Canaanites spread out, 
This means that no one can boast in God's presence. 
The king sent another officer with fifty men, who went up and said to Elijah, “Man of God, the king orders you to come down at once!” 
So Moses went out and told the people what the LORD had said. He assembled seventy of the leaders and placed them round the Tent. 
Promise me, women of Jerusalem; : swear by the swift deer and the gazelles : that you will not interrupt our love. 
which the more beautiful parts do not need. God himself has put the body together in such a way as to give greater honour to those parts that need it. 
LORD, I know that no one is the master of his own destiny; : no person has control over his own life. 
The towns of southern Judah are under siege; no one can get through to them. All the people of Judah have been taken away into exile.” 
and said, “Come home with me. You are a man whom the LORD has blessed. Why are you standing out here? I have a room ready for you in my house, and there is a place for your camels.” 
At noon the whole country was covered with darkness, which lasted for three hours. 
Many of those who had practised magic brought their books together and burnt them in public. They added up the price of the books, and the total came to 50,000 silver coins.  
For the Spirit that God has given you does not make you slaves and cause you to be afraid; instead, the Spirit makes you God's children, and by the Spirit's power we cry out to God, “Father! my Father!” 
How is it, then, that all of us hear them speaking in our own native languages? 
Then I will go to your altar, O God; : you are the source of my happiness. : I will play my harp and sing praise to you, : O God, my God. 
When she saw that he had left his robe and had run out of the house, 
I have asked the LORD for one thing; : one thing only do I want: : to live in the LORD's house all my life, : to marvel there at his goodness, : and to ask for his guidance. 
the LORD Almighty will rescue you with violent thunderstorms and earthquakes. He will send tempests and raging fire; 
We heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will tear down the Temple and change all the customs which have come down to us from Moses!” 
After sexual intercourse both the man and the woman must have a bath, and they remain unclean until evening. 
Scholars must have time to study if they are going to be wise; they must be relieved of other responsibilities. 
Then the disciples understood that he was talking to them about John the Baptist. 
Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength.’  
Her honour is gone; she is naked and held in contempt. : She groans and hides her face in shame. : Jerusalem made herself filthy with terrible sin. 
Then the LORD God said, “Now the man has become like one of us and has knowledge of what is good and what is bad. He must not be allowed to take fruit from the tree that gives life, eat it, and live for ever.” 
Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia, 
The righteous will possess the land : and live in it for ever. 
So Jesus said, “Well, then, pay the Emperor what belongs to the Emperor, and pay God what belongs to God.” 
So he went back and found Balak still standing by his burnt offering, with all the leaders of Moab. 
If his donkey has fallen under its load, help him get the donkey to its feet again; don't just walk off. 
His twelve governors, each one in the month assigned to him, supplied the food King Solomon needed for himself and for all who ate in the palace; they always supplied everything needed. 
When Simon Peter saw what had happened, he fell on his knees before Jesus and said, “Go away from me, Lord! I am a sinful man!” 
“Did you notice my servant Job?” the LORD asked. “There is no one on earth as faithful and good as he is. He worships me and is careful not to do anything evil.” 
and said to the people, “The land we explored is an excellent land. 
So they left the town and went to Jesus. 
When Peleg was thirty years old, he had a son, Reu; 
Jesus went all over Galilee, teaching in the synagogues, preaching the Good News about the Kingdom, and healing people who had all kinds of disease and sickness. 
Try to be at peace with everyone, and try to live a holy life, because no one will see the Lord without it. 
You do not want sacrifices and offerings; : you do not ask for animals burnt whole on the altar : or for sacrifices to take away sins. : Instead, you have given me ears to hear you, 
Remember this, my dear brothers and sisters! Everyone must be quick to listen, but slow to speak and slow to become angry. 
“Take it, Your Majesty,” Araunah said, “and do whatever you wish. Here are these oxen to burn as an offering on the altar, and here are the threshing boards to use as fuel, and wheat to give as an offering. I give it all to you.” 
What you get by dishonesty you may enjoy like the finest food, but sooner or later it will be like a mouthful of sand. 
Protect me and save me; : keep me from defeat. : I come to you for safety. 
The fields and villages, however, that belonged to the city were assigned to Caleb son of Jephunneh. 
Then the LORD, the God of Israel, told me 
Baalah, Iim, Ezem, 
Ebal, Abimael, Sheba, 
He struck at them from Aroer to the area round Minnith, twenty cities in all, and as far as Abel Keramim. There was a great slaughter, and the Ammonites were defeated by Israel. 
“Well,” they answered, “are you also from Galilee? Study the Scriptures and you will learn that no prophet ever comes from Galilee.”
Pashhur — 1,247 
She has lived with us from ancient times, : and generations to come will rely on her. 
This is why Jews who live in small towns observe the fourteenth day of the month of Adar as a joyous holiday, a time for feasting and giving gifts of food to one another. 
See where evil people have fallen. : There they lie, unable to rise.
Listen to the sound of crying in Zion, : “We are ruined! : We are completely disgraced! : We must leave our land; : our homes have been torn down.” 
My hands made the earth's foundations : and spread the heavens out. : When I summon earth and sky, : they come at once and present themselves. 
To conclude: let no one give me any more trouble, because the scars I have on my body show that I am the slave of Jesus. 
with an army of 1,200 chariots, 60,000 horsemen, and more soldiers than could be counted, including Libyan, Sukkite, and Ethiopian troops. 
In those days, and even later, there were giants on the earth who were descendants of human women and the heavenly beings. They were the great heroes and famous men of long ago. 
As cattle are led into a fertile valley, so the LORD gave his people rest. He led his people and brought honour to his name. 
You descendants of Abraham, his servant; : you descendants of Jacob, the man he chose: : remember the miracles that God performed : and the judgements that he gave. 
“He let them rule the highlands, : and they ate what grew in the fields. : They found wild honey among the rocks; : their olive trees flourished in stony ground. 
They marched against the Canaanites living in the city of Hebron, which used to be called Kiriath Arba. There they defeated the clans of Sheshai, Ahiman, and Talmai. 
You are always in my heart! And so it is only right for me to feel as I do about you. For you have all shared with me in this privilege that God has given me, both now that I am in prison and also while I was free to defend the gospel and establish it firmly. 
“I am a God who is everywhere and not in one place only. 
At once the gold cups and bowls were brought in, and they all drank wine out of them 
So the Israelites killed Og, his sons, and all his people, leaving no survivors, and then they occupied his land.
Keep away from profane and foolish discussions, which only drive people further away from God. 
If you go to her house, you are travelling the road to death. To go there is to approach the world of the dead. 
On the first day of the eleventh month of the fortieth year after they had left Egypt, Moses told the people everything the LORD had commanded him to tell them. 
All this is for your sake; and as God's grace reaches more and more people, they will offer to the glory of God more prayers of thanksgiving. 
It will be a dark and gloomy day, : a black and cloudy day. : The great army of locusts advances : like darkness spreading over the mountains. : There has never been anything like it, : and there never will be again. 
Let me ask those of you who want to be subject to the Law: do you not hear what the Law says? 
Throughout all the provinces, wherever the king's proclamation was made known, there was loud mourning among the Jews. They fasted, wept and wailed, and most of them put on sackcloth and lay in ashes. 
Wisdom has a treasury of wise sayings, but sinners have nothing but contempt for godliness. 
When Jethro saw everything that Moses had to do, he asked, “What is all this that you are doing for the people? Why are you doing this all alone, with people standing here from morning till night to consult you?” 
He made the people of Benjamin and everyone else present in Jerusalem promise to keep the covenant. And so the people of Jerusalem obeyed the requirements of the covenant they had made with the God of their ancestors. 
You will judge in my favour, : because you know what is right. 
And I myself will send upon you what my Father has promised. But you must wait in the city until the power from above comes down upon you.” 
The LORD answered, “Do what they want and give them a king.” Then Samuel told all the men of Israel to go back home.
God said to the man wearing linen clothes, “Go between the wheels under the creatures and fill your hands with burning coals. Then scatter the coals over the city.” : I watched him go. 
So King David sent for him. 
When a lion roars, who can avoid being afraid? : When the Sovereign LORD speaks, who can avoid proclaiming his message? 
He told her to go and sent her away for two months. She and her friends went up into the mountains and grieved because she was going to die unmarried and childless. 
He made four carrying rings of gold for it and put them at the four corners, where the legs were. 
and said, “Get up, take the child and his mother, and go back to the land of Israel, because those who tried to kill the child are dead.” 
And again, : “Praise the Lord, all Gentiles; : praise him, all peoples!” 
He arranged everything in an eternal order : and decreed that it should be that way for ever. : Not one part of creation ever grows hungry; : no part grows tired or stops its work. 
I thought I had been banished from your presence : and would never see your holy Temple again. 
Some men joined him and believed, among whom was Dionysius, a member of the council; there was also a woman named Damaris, and some other people.
Ladan's two other sons, Zetham and Joel, had charge of the temple treasury and storerooms. 
On the third day Abraham saw the place in the distance. 
but Jacob's descendants he chose for himself. 
For Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who was preached among you by Silas, Timothy, and myself, is not one who is “Yes” and “No”. On the contrary, he is God's “Yes”; 
On the day you cross the River Jordan and enter the land that the LORD your God is giving you, you are to set up some large stones, cover them with plaster, 
“Go and tell my servant David that I say to him, ‘You are not the one to build a temple for me to live in. 
He spreads snow like a blanket : and scatters frost like dust. 
because this people's minds are dull, : and they have stopped up their ears : and closed their eyes. : Otherwise, their eyes would see, : their ears would hear, : their minds would understand, : and they would turn to me, says God, : and I would heal them.’ ” 
When Elijah was hidden by the whirlwind, Elisha was filled with his Spirit. As long as he lived, he was not afraid of rulers, and they could not make him do as they wished. 
But your lust for women was your downfall. 
But you will die like mortals; : your life will end like that of any prince.” 
and make a sacred anointing oil, mixed like perfume. 
So go back home in peace, and don't do anything that would displease them.” 
The floor of the ocean was laid bare, : and the foundations of the earth were uncovered : when the LORD rebuked his enemies : and roared at them in anger. 
So the LORD was angry with his people; : he was disgusted with them. 
You drink the milk, wear clothes made from the wool, and kill and eat the finest sheep. But you never tend the sheep. 
I am bowed down, I am crushed; : I mourn all day long. 
They are like young plants, : just set out and barely rooted. : When the LORD sends a wind, : they dry up and blow away like straw. 
God's Spirit took control of one of them, Amasai, who later became the commander of “The Thirty”, and he called out, : “David son of Jesse, we are yours! : Success to you and those who help you! : God is on your side.” : David welcomed them and made them officers in his army. 
You yourselves know very well that you should do just what we did. We were not lazy when we were with you. 
The following are also descendants of Caleb. : Hur was the eldest son of Caleb and his wife Ephrath. Hur's son Shobal founded Kiriath Jearim, 
As soon as King Ahaziah's mother Athaliah learnt of her son's murder, she gave orders for all the members of the royal family to be killed. 
Those who believe in the Son are not judged; but those who do not believe have already been judged, because they have not believed in God's only Son.  
God looked at the world and saw that it was evil, for the people were all living evil lives. 
How I love your law! : I think about it all day long. 
However, the Israelites did not burn any of the cities built on mounds, except Hazor, which Joshua did burn. 
As they went on their way, a man said to Jesus, “I will follow you wherever you go.” 
Human desires are like the world of the dead — there is always room for more. 
to tell Ebedmelech the Ethiopian that the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, had said, “Just as I said I would, I am going to bring upon this city destruction and not prosperity. And when this happens, you will be there to see it. 
Gamaliel son of Pedahzur was in command of the tribe of Manasseh, 
Israel, trust in the LORD : now and for ever!
You should not have entered the city of my people : to gloat over their suffering : and to seize their riches : on the day of their disaster. 
They have taken their bows and swords; : they are cruel and merciless. : They sound like the roaring sea, : as they ride their horses. : They are ready for battle against Babylonia. 
There in Susa lived a Jew named Mordecai son of Jair; he was from the tribe of Benjamin and was a descendant of Kish and Shimei. 
The supports and panels were decorated with figures of winged creatures, lions, and palm trees, wherever there was space for them, with spiral figures all round. 
One day Ishmael, whom Hagar the Egyptian had borne to Abraham, was playing with Sarah's son Isaac.  
May the LORD always remember their sins, : but may they themselves be completely forgotten! 
Some of them go into people's houses and gain control over weak women who are burdened by the guilt of their sins and driven by all kinds of desires, 
“Peace is what I leave with you; it is my own peace that I give you. I do not give it as the world does. Do not be worried and upset; do not be afraid.  
You are guilty of lying, violence, and murder. 
Burn a third of it in the city when the siege is over. Take another third and chop it up with your sword as you move about outside the city. Scatter the remaining third to the winds, and I will pursue it with my sword. 
This was done by the LORD; : what a wonderful sight it is! 
Jesus called his disciples to him and said, “I feel sorry for these people, because they have been with me for three days and now have nothing to eat. I don't want to send them away without feeding them, for they might faint on their way home.” 
“Are you coming in peace?” Joram asked him. : “How can there be peace,” Jehu answered, “when we still have all the witchcraft and idolatry that your mother Jezebel started?” 
Then take the young woman you like best and make her queen in Vashti's place.” : The king thought this was good advice, so he followed it. 
When people make vows, they use the name of someone greater than themselves, and the vow settles all arguments. 
because God does not want us to be in disorder but in harmony and peace. : As in all the churches of God's people, 
They went all the way across the island to Paphos, where they met a certain magician named Bar-Jesus, a Jew who claimed to be a prophet. 
At the hour of the afternoon sacrifice the prophet Elijah approached the altar and prayed, “O LORD, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, prove now that you are the God of Israel and that I am your servant and have done all this at your command. 
David sang this lament for Saul and his son Jonathan, 
So Moses, the LORD's servant, died there in the land of Moab, as the LORD had said he would. 
Then God commanded, “Let the water be filled with many kinds of living beings, and let the air be filled with birds.” 
He removed from the Temple the foreign gods and the image that he had placed there, and the pagan altars that were on the hill where the Temple stood and in other places in Jerusalem; he took all these things outside the city and threw them away. 
Remember our sin at Peor, when the LORD punished his own people with an epidemic? We are still suffering because of that. Wasn't that sin enough? 
The LORD says to Jerusalem, : “Foreigners will rebuild your walls, : And their kings will serve you. : In my anger I punished you, : But now I will show you my favour and mercy. 
On the fifteenth day a religious festival begins which lasts seven days, during which only bread prepared without yeast is to be eaten. 
My friends, each of you should remain in fellowship with God in the same condition as you were when you were called. 
I will destroy anyone who goes up on the roof and worships the sun, the moon, and the stars. I will also destroy those who worship me and swear loyalty to me, but then take oaths in the name of the god Molech. 
“How terrible for you teachers of the Law! You have kept the key that opens the door to the house of knowledge; you yourselves will not go in, and you stop those who are trying to go in!” 
Now then, give me the hill country that the LORD promised me on that day when my men and I reported. We told you then that the race of giants called the Anakim were there in large walled cities. Maybe the LORD will be with me, and I will drive them out, just as the LORD said.” 
We took all the territory of King Og of Bashan: the cities on the plateau, the regions of Gilead and of Bashan, as far east as the towns of Salecah and Edrei.” 
All this wealth which God has taken from our father belongs to us and to our children. Do whatever God has told you.” 
A young man ran out to tell Moses what Eldad and Medad were doing. 
So, just as Joshua had ordered, an advance guard started out ahead of the priests who were blowing trumpets; behind these came the priests who were carrying the Covenant Box, followed by a rearguard. All this time the trumpets were sounding. 
You chose me rather than anyone else to be the king of your own people, to judge your sons and daughters. 
Then he took the gifts to Eglon, who was a very fat man. 
and he predicted what was to happen before the end of time, hidden things that had not yet occurred.
This is a prayer of the prophet Habakkuk
I have written down thirty sayings for you. They contain knowledge and good advice, 
So I will send fire upon the city walls of Rabbah and burn down its fortresses. Then there will be shouts on the day of battle, and the fighting will rage like a storm. 
Then I took both copies of the deed of purchase — the sealed copy containing the contract and its conditions, and the open copy — 
Christ was without sin, but for our sake God made him share our sin in order that in union with him we might share the righteousness of God.
Don't let Hezekiah fool you into thinking that the LORD will rescue you. Did the gods of any other nations save their countries from the emperor of Assyria? 
He leads the humble in the right way : and teaches them his will. 
The people of Judah went with the people of Simeon, and together they defeated the Canaanites who lived in the city of Zephath. They put a curse on the city, destroyed it, and named it Hormah.  
Then the man wearing linen clothes returned and reported to the LORD, “I have carried out your orders.”
The teachers of the Law and the Pharisees began to say to themselves, “Who is this man who speaks such blasphemy! God is the only one who can forgive sins!” 
Your hands formed and shaped me, : and now those same hands destroy me. 
When God made his promise to Abraham, he made a vow to do what he had promised. Since there was no one greater than himself, he used his own name when he made his vow. 
when four men arrived, carrying a paralysed man to Jesus. 
When they call to me, I will answer them; : when they are in trouble, I will be with them. : I will rescue them and honour them. 
May there be plenty of corn in the land; : may the hills be covered with crops, : as fruitful as those of Lebanon. : May the cities be filled with people, : like fields full of grass. 
I will make you well again; : I will heal your wounds, : though your enemies say, : ‘Zion is an outcast; : no one cares about her.’ : I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
Out of the territory of all your tribes the LORD will choose the one place where the people are to come into his presence and worship him. 
Whoever lives by them will be strong enough for any occasion, because he will be walking in the light of the Lord.
Then Moses led the people of Israel away from the Red Sea into the desert of Shur. For three days they walked through the desert, but found no water. 
He answered, “I will send you a young goat from my flock.” : She said, “All right, if you will give me something to keep as a pledge until you send the goat.” 
Jokim and the people who lived in the town of Cozeba; and Joash and Saraph, who married Moabite women and then settled in Bethlehem. (These traditions are very old.) 
it was the costly sacrifice of Christ, who was like a lamb without defect or flaw. 
The LORD loves those who hate evil; : he protects the lives of his people; : he rescues them from the power of the wicked. 
Your constant love reaches above the heavens; : your faithfulness touches the skies. 
You will not become guilty when you eat it, as long as you have presented the best of it to the LORD. But be sure not to profane the sacred gifts of the Israelites by eating any of the gifts before the best part is offered; if you do, you will be put to death.”
Still, I realized that I would never receive Wisdom unless God gave her to me — and knowing that only God could give her to me was itself a sign of understanding. So I prayed, begging the Lord with all my heart
He and his army and the many nations with him will attack like a storm and cover the land like a cloud.” 
When you do a good deed, make sure you know who is benefiting from it; then what you do will not be wasted.  
to say to Aaron and his sons, “You must not bring disgrace on my holy name, so treat with respect the sacred offerings that the people of Israel dedicate to me. I am the LORD. 
When that time comes, there will be an altar to the LORD in the land of Egypt and a stone pillar dedicated to him at the Egyptian border. 
While we live in this earthly tent, we groan with a feeling of oppression; it is not that we want to get rid of our earthly body, but that we want to have the heavenly one put on over us, so that what is mortal will be transformed by life. 
They asked him, “Who is the man who told you to do this?” 
I, the LORD, was the first to tell Zion the news; : I sent a messenger to Jerusalem to say, : ‘Your people are coming! They are coming home!’ 
Also offer one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the goat offered in the ritual of purification for the people, and the daily burnt offering with its grain offering and wine offering. 
That same day the king commanded the Egyptian slave-drivers and the Israelite foremen
In conclusion, my brothers and sisters, be joyful in your union with the Lord. I don't mind repeating what I have written before, and you will be safer if I do so. 
If the man is offering one of his sheep or goats, it must be a male without any defects. 
Moza the father of Binea, Binea of Raphah, Raphah of Eleasah, and Eleasah of Azel. 
We will do everything that we said we would. We will offer sacrifices to our goddess, the Queen of Heaven, and we will pour out wine offerings to her, just as we and our ancestors, our king and our leaders, used to do in the towns of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem. Then we had plenty of food, we were prosperous, and had no troubles. 
Before there were any kings in Israel, the following kings ruled over the land of Edom in succession: : Bela son of Beor from Dinhabah : Jobab son of Zerah from Bozrah : Husham from the region of Teman : Hadad son of Bedad from Avith (he defeated the Midianites in a battle in the country of Moab) : Samlah from Masrekah : Shaul from Rehoboth-on-the-River : Baal Hanan son of Achbor : Hadad from Pau (his wife was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred and granddaughter of Mezahab) 
It could have been sold for more than 300 silver coins and the money given to the poor!” And they criticized her harshly. 
So David sent word to Tamar in the palace: “Go to Amnon's house and prepare some food for him.” 
“No longer will the sun be your light by day : Or the moon be your light by night; : I, the LORD, will be your eternal light; : The light of my glory will shine on you. 
Blind Pharisee! Clean what is inside the cup first, and then the outside will be clean too! 
For you yourselves know very well that the Day of the Lord will come as a thief comes at night. 
Present a food offering to the LORD and do none of your daily work. 
Don't think that you can sin and get away with it; the Lord does not mind waiting to punish you. 
Evening passed and morning came — that was the third day. 
Then his disciples said to him, “Now you are speaking plainly, without using figures of speech. 
I lost patience with three other shepherds, who hated me, and I got rid of them all in a single month. 
This is the prophecy of Obadiah — what the Sovereign LORD said about the nation of Edom. : The LORD has sent his messenger to the nations, : and we have heard his message: : “Get ready! Let us go to war against Edom!” 
Ishbosheth was so afraid of Abner that he could not say a word. 
There were 250 officials in charge of the forced labour working on the various building projects. 
He was walking along the street near the corner where a certain woman lived. He was passing near her house 
Wherever you go in that land, the LORD your God will make the people fear you, as he has promised, and no one will be able to stop you. 
They tried to find out when the time would be and how it would come. This was the time to which Christ's Spirit in them was pointing, in predicting the sufferings that Christ would have to endure and the glory that would follow. 
Perhaps the LORD your God will change his mind : and bless you with abundant crops. : Then you can offer him corn and wine. 
LORD, there is no one like you; : you are mighty, : and your name is great and powerful. 
Sanballat, Tobiah, Geshem, and the rest of our enemies heard that we had finished building the wall and that there were no gaps left in it, although we still had not set up the gates in the gateways. 
“I will make the Egyptians respect you so that when my people leave, they will not go empty-handed. 
Then Elisha stared at him with a horrified look on his face until Hazael became ill at ease. Suddenly Elisha burst into tears. 
You have thrown me into the depths of the tomb, : into the darkest and deepest pit. 
Exchange greetings with many, but take advice from only one person out of a thousand. 
All the people of Judah were happy because they had made this covenant with all their heart. They took delight in worshipping the LORD, and he accepted them and gave them peace on every side. 
Israel, trust in the LORD, : because his love is constant : and he is always willing to save. 
The men named above were heads of Levite families, according to their ancestral lines. They were the leaders who lived in Jerusalem. 
Teach children how they should live, and they will remember it all their lives. 
Anyone who thinks it isn't wrong to steal from his parents is no better than a common thief. 
And so he rewards me because I do what is right, : because he knows that I am innocent. 
from one generation to another : he shows mercy to those who honour him. 
LORD, will you hide yourself for ever? : How long will your anger burn like fire? 
After she had weaned him, she took him to Shiloh, taking along a three-year-old bull, ten kilogrammes of flour, and a leather bag full of wine. She took Samuel, young as he was, to the house of the LORD at Shiloh. 
Joab was in command of the army of Israel; Benaiah son of Jehoiada was in charge of David's bodyguard; 
But houses in unwalled villages are to be treated like fields; the original owner has the right to buy them back, and they are to be returned in the Year of Restoration. 
“Condemn to death anyone who offers sacrifices to any god except to me, the LORD. 
I have thought it necessary to send you our brother Epaphroditus, who has worked and fought by my side and who has served as your messenger in helping me. 
Judas agreed to it and started looking for a good chance to hand Jesus over to them without the people knowing about it. 
Are you going to try to take it back? You can keep whatever your god Chemosh has given you. But we are going to keep everything that the LORD, our God, has given us. 
Absalom had three sons and one daughter named Tamar, a very beautiful woman. 
Hang it on four posts of acacia wood covered with gold, fitted with hooks, and set in four silver bases. 
When they finish proclaiming their message, the beast that comes up out of the abyss will fight against them. He will defeat them and kill them, 
I answered, “That's not so! I'm not deserting.” But Irijah would not listen to me. Instead, he arrested me and took me to the officials. 
And you are my friends if you do what I command you.  
I put the following men in charge of the storerooms: Shelemiah, a priest; Zadok, a scholar of the Law; and Pedaiah, a Levite. Hanan, the son of Zaccur and grandson of Mattaniah, was to be their assistant. I knew I could trust these men to be honest in distributing the supplies to their fellow-workers. 
Then Jesus spoke to the crowds and to his disciples. 
The Jewish authorities were looking for him at the festival. “Where is he?” they asked. 
If they obey God and serve him, : they live out their lives in peace and prosperity. 
Now in those days, to settle a sale or an exchange of property, it was the custom for the seller to take off his sandal and give it to the buyer. In this way the Israelites showed that the matter was settled. 
The Assyrian emperor has sent his chief official to insult the living God. May the LORD your God hear these insults and punish those who spoke them. So pray to God for those of our people who survive.” 
Does this sound as if I am trying to win human approval? No indeed! What I want is God's approval! Am I trying to be popular with people? If I were still trying to do so, I would not be a servant of Christ. 
“You must stop judging unjustly; : you must no longer be partial to the wicked! 
Fools say to themselves, : “There is no God.” : They are all corrupt, : and they have done terrible things; : there is no one who does what is right. 
The LORD said to me, “I will send enemies to carry away the wealth and treasures of my people, in order to punish them for the sins they have committed throughout the land. 
King Jehoshaphat built ocean-going ships to sail to the land of Ophir for gold; but they were wrecked at Eziongeber and never sailed. 
The Lord gave me a gift for words, and I have used it in his praise. 
My sorrow cannot be healed; : I am sick at heart. 
They say wicked things about you; : they speak evil things against your name. 
My children, listen and I will teach you the circumstances when it is proper to be ashamed. Sometimes it is entirely out of place. 
Some donkeys belonging to Kish had wandered off, so he said to Saul, “Take one of the servants with you and go and look for the donkeys.” 
Sing to the LORD, all the world! 
Then King David went into the Tent of the LORD's presence, sat down, and prayed, “I am not worthy of what you have already done for me, LORD God, nor is my family. 
How happy I was to find that some of your children live in the truth, just as the Father commanded us. 
After all, this is David, the one about whom the women sang, as they danced, ‘Saul has killed thousands, but David has killed tens of thousands.’ ” 
Say to the people of Israel, ‘This holy anointing oil is to be used in my service for all time to come. 
The Israelites marched out from Mizpah and pursued the Philistines almost as far as Bethcar, killing them along the way. 
While Jesus was saying this, a messenger came from the official's house. “Your daughter has died,” he told Jairus; “don't bother the Teacher any longer.” 
The next day Holofernes gathered his whole army together, as well as his allied forces. It was an immense army, consisting of 170,000 infantry and 12,000 cavalry, not counting the support troops who took care of the equipment. He ordered them to march on Bethulia, seize the mountain passes, and attack the Israelites. So they moved out 
Be on your guard against him yourself, because he was violently opposed to our message. 
Give our best wishes to the brothers and sisters in Laodicea and to Nympha and the church that meets in her house.  
Abram travelled through the land until he came to the sacred tree of Moreh, the holy place at Shechem. (At that time the Canaanites were still living in the land.) 
Then Jesus said to the officer, “Go home, and what you believe will be done for you.” : And the officer's servant was healed that very moment. 
Perfume and fragrant oils make you feel happier, but trouble shatters your peace of mind. 
to say to the people of Israel, “Any of you or any foreigner living among you who gives any of his or her children to be used in the worship of the god Molech shall be stoned to death by the whole community. 
The priest shall offer one of them as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering, and in this way he will perform the ritual of purification for her. 
The more you talk, the more likely you are to sin. If you are wise, you will keep quiet. 
There is not an honest person left in the land, no one loyal to God. Everyone is waiting for a chance to commit murder. Everyone hunts down his own people. 
He silences those who are trusted, : and takes the wisdom of old people away. 
“I assigned Gilead to the clan of Machir of the tribe of Manasseh. 
The army officers, the leading citizens, the officials, and all the rest of the people joined Jehoiada in a procession that brought the king from the Temple to the palace. They entered by the main gate, and the king took his place on the throne. 
Help us against the enemy; : human help is worthless. 
About the tribe of Asher he said: : “Asher is blessed more than the other tribes. : May he be the favourite of his brothers, : And may his land be rich with olive trees. 
They have been told that you have been teaching all the Jews who live in Gentile countries to abandon the Law of Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children or follow the Jewish customs. 
Very early on Sunday morning the women went to the tomb, carrying the spices they had prepared. 
Jacob went ahead of them and bowed down to the ground seven times as he approached his brother. 
“According to our Law we cannot condemn anyone before hearing him and finding out what he has done.” 
and in Hades,  where he was in great pain, he looked up and saw Abraham, far away, with Lazarus at his side.  
which now had turned into wine, and he tasted it. He did not know where this wine had come from (but, of course, the servants who had drawn out the water knew); so he called the bridegroom 
So let no one make rules about what you eat or drink or about holy days or the New Moon Festival or the Sabbath. 
And Cain said to the LORD, “This punishment is too hard for me to bear. 
LORD, are you unmoved by all this? Are you going to do nothing and make us suffer more than we can endure?
But they will do all this to you because you are mine; for they do not know the one who sent me.  
All the believers in Lystra and Iconium spoke well of Timothy. 
All that my Father has is mine; that is why I said that the Spirit will take what I give him and tell it to you. 
but you have saved us from our enemies : and defeated those who hate us. 
Zion's young men were as precious to us as gold, : but now they are treated like common clay pots. 
That is what the wicked are like. : They have plenty and are always getting more. 
And the dragon stood on the seashore.
They came to Capernaum, and after going indoors Jesus asked his disciples, “What were you arguing about on the road?” 
Slander leads to a miserable death; but in fact, you'd be better off dead. 
“And so I, the LORD, will state my case against my people again. : I will bring charges against their descendants. 
The king answered, “You don't have to say anything more. I have decided that you and Ziba will share Saul's property.” 
Let the priests of God say, : “His love is eternal.” 
the moon and the stars to rule over the night; : his love is eternal. 
Don't let the flood come over me; : don't let me drown in the depths : or sink into the grave. 
The Jewish authorities replied with a question, “What miracle can you perform to show us that you have the right to do this?” 
But the ship hit a sandbank and went aground; the front part of the ship got stuck and could not move, while the back part was being broken to pieces by the violence of the waves. 
and if the dead person's relative finds him and kills him, this act of revenge is not murder. 
I will destroy your land so completely that the enemies who occupy it will be shocked at the destruction. 
So Jesus ordered the crowd to sit down on the ground. 
no one who is a hunchback or a dwarf; no one with any eye or skin disease; and no eunuch. 
And so all the nations of the world will know that the LORD alone is God — there is no other. 
But some seeds fell in good soil, and the plants sprouted, grew, and produced corn: some had thirty grains, others sixty, and others 100.” 
for the ordination of an Aaronite priest. On the day he is ordained, he shall present as an offering to the LORD one kilogramme of flour (the same amount as the daily grain offering), half in the morning and half in the evening. 
When Naomi saw that Ruth was determined to go with her, she said nothing more. 
So Peter got ready and went with them. When he arrived, he was taken to the room upstairs, where all the widows crowded round him, crying and showing him all the shirts and coats that Dorcas had made while she was alive. 
Hypocrites! You can look at the earth and the sky and predict the weather; why, then, don't you know the meaning of this present time? 
They intend to invade Judah, terrify the people into joining their side, and then put Tabeel's son on the throne. 
But they defied me and refused to listen. They did not throw away their disgusting idols or give up the Egyptian gods. I was ready to let them feel the full force of my anger there in Egypt. 
Remember that as long as heaven and earth last, not the least point nor the smallest detail of the Law will be done away with — not until the end of all things.  
Koz was the father of Anub and Zobebah, and the ancestor of the clans descended from Aharhel son of Harum. 
When David had gone a little beyond the top of the hill, he was suddenly met by Ziba, the servant of Mephibosheth, who had with him a couple of donkeys loaded with 200 loaves of bread, a hundred bunches of raisins, a hundred bunches of fresh fruit, and a leather bag full of wine. 
The first to sign was the governor, Nehemiah son of Hacaliah, and then Zedekiah signed. The following also signed
The Babylonians all roar like lions and growl like lion cubs. 
When he has brought them out, he goes ahead of them, and the sheep follow him, because they know his voice.  
Send a mob to plunder their homes without warning; make them cry out in terror. They have dug a pit for me to fall in and have set traps to catch me. 
Pilate questioned him, “Are you the king of the Jews?” : Jesus answered, “So you say.” 
“If anyone borrows an animal from someone else and it is injured or dies when its owner is not present, he must pay for it. 
Anyone who does not stay with the teaching of Christ, but goes beyond it, does not have God. Whoever does stay with the teaching has both the Father and the Son. 
Just as the LORD had commanded Moses, they tied the rings of the breastpiece to the rings of the ephod with a blue cord, so that the breastpiece rested above the belt and did not come loose. 
God has appointed me as an apostle and teacher to proclaim the Good News, 
Sing and shout for joy, people of Israel! : Rejoice with all your heart, Jerusalem! 
They were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to talk in other languages, as the Spirit enabled them to speak. 
You, your officials, and your people will be rid of the frogs, and there will be none left except in the Nile.” 
Your hearts and minds must be made completely new, 
The LORD is ready to state his case; he is ready to judge his people.  
So now, obey what you have been taught; obey all the laws that I have given you today. 
“You are like light for the whole world. A city built on a hill cannot be hidden.  
The LORD says, “The people of Israel are as dishonest as the Canaanites; they love to cheat their customers with false scales. 
Samuel listened to everything they said and then went and told the LORD. 
the pegs and ropes for the Tent and the enclosure; 
The enemy troops came out of the city and fought Joab's forces; some of David's officers were killed, and so was Uriah. 
“If a king goes out with 10,000 men to fight another king who comes against him with 20,000 men, he will sit down first and decide if he is strong enough to face that other king.  
As for the Temple, by my efforts I have accumulated more than 3,400 tonnes of gold and over 34,000 tonnes of silver to be used in building it. Besides that, there is an unlimited supply of bronze and iron. I also have wood and stone ready, but you must get more. 
so that they can understand the hidden meanings of proverbs and the problems that the wise raise. 
When the officers heard this, they tore their clothes in grief; and as the panic spread, wild cries and shouts were heard throughout the camp.
Jesus answered, “All those who drink this water will be thirsty again,  
The first one was reddish, and his skin was like a hairy robe, so he was named Esau.  
Jesus and his disciples arrived on the other side of Lake Galilee, in the territory of Gerasa. 
There he divided his men into groups, attacked the enemy by night, and defeated them. He chased them as far as Hobah, north of Damascus, 
He will give them royal splendour and a magnificent crown. He will shield them with his powerful arm. 
Half their children spoke the language of Ashdod or some other language and didn't know how to speak our language. 
Bad people will get what they deserve. Good people will be rewarded for their deeds. 
When the people read it, they were filled with joy by the message of encouragement. 
Samuel answered, “I am the seer. Go on ahead of me to the place of worship. Both of you are to eat with me today. Tomorrow morning I will answer all your questions and send you on your way. 
and the sound will echo to the ends of the earth. : The LORD has a case against the nations. : He will bring all people to trial : and put the wicked to death. : The LORD has spoken.’ ” 
They all assembled at the time of the Festival of Shelters. 
But the Edomites answered, “We refuse to let you pass through our country! If you try, we will march out and attack you.” 
It is God who takes water from the earth : and turns it into drops of rain. 
Then Moses raised the stick and struck the rock twice with it, and a great stream of water gushed out, and all the people and animals drank. 
So when the crowd gathered, Pilate asked them, “Which one do you want me to set free for you? Jesus Barabbas or Jesus called the Messiah?” 
and sent his angel Raphael to help them. He was sent to remove the white film from Tobit's eyes, so that he could see again, and to arrange a marriage between Sarah and Tobit's son Tobias, who, as her cousin, had the right to marry her. Raphael was also ordered to expel the demon Asmodeus from Sarah. At the very moment that Tobit went back into his house from the courtyard, Sarah, in her house in Ecbatana, was coming downstairs.
You will attack my people Israel like a storm moving across the land. When the time comes, I will send you to invade my land in order to show the nations who I am, to show my holiness by what I do through you. 
The heads of the families in the clan of Gilead, the son of Machir and grandson of Manasseh son of Joseph, went to Moses and the other leaders. 
I am drowning in the flood of my sins; : they are a burden too heavy to bear. 
For creation was condemned to lose its purpose, not of its own will, but because God willed it to be so. Yet there was the hope 
Where are they now, the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivvah? Did anyone save Samaria? 
Abraham hurried into the tent and said to Sarah, “Quick, take a sack of your best flour, and bake some bread.” 
A real friend will help you against your enemies and protect you in the fight. 
Your neck is like a tower of ivory. : Your eyes are like the pools in the city of Heshbon, : near the gate of that great city. : Your nose is as lovely as the tower of Lebanon : that stands guard at Damascus. 
At that time I will make a covenant with all the wild animals and birds, so that they will not harm my people. I will also remove all weapons of war from the land, all swords and bows, and will let my people live in peace and safety. 
For a long time Israel lived without the true God, without priests to teach them, and without a law. 
The Israelites replied, “We have ten times as many claims on King David as you have, even if he is one of you. Why do you look down on us? Don't forget that we were the first to talk about bringing the king back!” : But the men of Judah were more violent in making their claims than the men of Israel.
In the case of our human fathers, they punished us and we respected them. How much more, then, should we submit to our spiritual Father and live! 
On the top of a barren hill raise the battle flag! Shout to the soldiers and raise your arm as the signal for them to attack the gates of the proud city. 
How I love you, LORD! : You are my defender. 
but when what is perfect comes, then what is partial will disappear. 
So Moses told the people of Israel everything that the LORD had commanded him.
The LORD said to Moses, 
You let their wives be carried off, their daughters taken captive, and their possessions plundered by the Israelites, your chosen people, who were eager to do your will. Dinah's brothers were furious because of this disgrace to their family, so they called on you for help. : “O my God, listen to my prayer, the prayer of a widow. 
and I brought you out of Egypt to become your God. I am the LORD.”
You give us great victories; : in your love you make us triumphant. 
Those who fear the Lord do not disobey his commands; those who love him will live as he wants them to live. 
“No, my son,” the king answered. “It would be too much trouble for you if we all went.” Absalom insisted, but the king would not give in, and he asked Absalom to leave. 
What happened to them shows that the proverbs are true: “A dog goes back to what it has vomited” and “A pig that has been washed goes back to roll in the mud.”
Ahab asked his officials, “Why is it that we have not done anything to get back Ramoth in Gilead from the king of Syria? It belongs to us!” 
But you have not believed my message, which will come true at the right time. Because you have not believed, you will be unable to speak; you will remain silent until the day my promise to you comes true.” 
That night the Lord stood by Paul and said, “Don't be afraid! You have given your witness for me here in Jerusalem, and you must also do the same in Rome.” 
listen to them in heaven. Forgive the sins of the king and of the people of Israel. Teach them to do what is right. Then, O LORD, send rain on this land of yours, which you gave to your people as a permanent possession. 
Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will lift you up. 
Then a man named Jairus arrived; he was an official in the local synagogue. He threw himself down at Jesus' feet and begged him to go to his home, 
For we fix our attention, not on things that are seen, but on things that are unseen. What can be seen lasts only for a time, but what cannot be seen lasts for ever.
they killed children without mercy and ate the flesh and blood of human beings. They were initiated into secret rituals  
five for the frames on the other side, and five for the frames on the west end, at the back. 
All the people living in Lydda and Sharon saw him, and they turned to the Lord. 
God looked at everything he had made, and he was very pleased. Evening passed and morning came — that was the sixth day.
Then Zerubbabel and Joshua and all the people who had returned from the exile in Babylonia, did what the LORD their God told them to do. They were afraid and obeyed the prophet Haggai, the LORD's messenger. 
The officials and leading citizens of Jezreel did what Jezebel had commanded. 
They used to be rich, but now they go hungry; : disaster stands and waits at their side. 
There is no need to write to you about love for your fellow-believers. You yourselves have been taught by God how you should love one another. 
On the third day offer eleven young bulls, two rams, and fourteen one-year-old male lambs, all without any defects. 
Then the king hurriedly called Moses and Aaron and said, “I have sinned against the LORD your God and against you. 
But the heavenly Jerusalem is free, and she is our mother. 
So then, if she lives with another man while her husband is alive, she will be called an adulteress; but if her husband dies, she is legally a free woman and does not commit adultery if she marries another man. 
“Anyone who is not for me is really against me; anyone who does not help me gather is really scattering.  
A message was sent throughout Jerusalem and Judah that all those who had returned from exile were to meet in Jerusalem 
“You have six days in which to do your work, but do not work on the seventh day, not even during ploughing time or harvest. 
Then the Jewish authorities asked Pilate to allow them to break the legs of the men who had been crucified, and to take the bodies down from the crosses. They requested this because it was Friday, and they did not want the bodies to stay on the crosses on the Sabbath, since the coming Sabbath was especially holy. 
Shebuel, of the clan of Moses' son Gershom, was the chief official responsible for the temple treasury. 
So the LORD sent a disease on the people, because they had caused Aaron to make the gold bull calf.
I knelt down and worshipped the LORD. I praised the LORD, the God of my master Abraham, who had led me straight to my master's relative, where I found his daughter for my master's son. 
Do you think I have attacked your country and destroyed it without the LORD's help? The LORD himself told me to attack it and destroy it.” 
His thighs are columns of alabaster : set in sockets of gold. : He is majestic, like the Lebanon Mountains : with their towering cedars. 
Simeon and his sons: Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a Canaanite woman. 
For the scripture says, “The first man, Adam, was created a living being”; but the last Adam is the life-giving Spirit. 
So the men went north and explored the land from the wilderness of Zin in the south all the way to Rehob, near Hamath Pass in the north. 
and Joshua son of Jehozadak, his fellow-priests, and Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, together with his relatives, rebuilt the altar of the God of Israel, so that they could burn sacrifices on it according to the instructions written in the Law of Moses, the man of God. 
What are the angels, then? They are spirits who serve God and are sent by him to help those who are to receive salvation.
Duties were also assigned to the descendants of Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. 
His angel guards those who honour the LORD : and rescues them from danger. 
Then he added, “I have here a book that Hilkiah gave me.” And he read it aloud to the king. 
Can anyone deny that this is so? : Can anyone prove that my words are not true?
“You are right,” the LORD said, “and I am watching to see that my words come true.” 
Following the example of his father, Jehoiachin sinned against the LORD. 
Half of this area, a section 12.5 kilometres by five kilometres, is to be measured off; it will contain the Temple, the holiest place of all. 
“But King Sihon would not let us pass through his country. The LORD your God had made him stubborn and rebellious, so that we could defeat him and take his territory, which we still occupy. 
The way you think shows your character just as surely as a kiln shows any flaws in the pottery being fired. 
Then Gideon said to God, “You say that you have decided to use me to rescue Israel. 
So it is best for us to wait in patience — to wait for him to save us — 
The wicked vomit up the wealth they stole; : God takes it back, even out of their stomachs. 
“Remember how Moses, the LORD's servant, told you that the LORD your God would give you this land on the east side of the Jordan as your home. 
He was a religious man; he and his whole family worshipped God. He also did much to help the Jewish poor people and was constantly praying to God. 
love is not happy with evil, but is happy with the truth. 
And the answer will be, ‘It is because the LORD's people broke the covenant they had made with him, the God of their ancestors, when he brought them out of Egypt. 
A prophet went to King Ahab and said, “This is what the LORD says: ‘Because the Syrians say that I am a god of the hills and not of the plains, I will give you victory over their huge army, and you and your people will know that I am the LORD.’ ” 
“You may wonder how you can tell when a prophet's message does not come from the LORD. 
Nor can they give you proof of the accusations they now bring against me. 
The altars which the kings of Judah had built on the palace roof above King Ahaz' quarters, King Josiah tore down, along with the altars put up by King Manasseh in the two courtyards of the Temple; he smashed the altars to bits and threw them into the valley of the Kidron. 
The king and his officials approved this plan, 
And a human being is worth much more than a sheep! So then, our Law does allow us to help someone on the Sabbath.”  
But when Ahijah heard her coming in the door, he said, “Come in. I know you are Jeroboam's wife. Why are you pretending to be someone else? I have bad news for you. 
who angrily oppressed the peoples and never stopped persecuting the nations they had conquered. 
But he burnt the meat and the skin outside the camp. 
the table and its equipment, the lampstand of pure gold and all its equipment, the altar for burning incense, 
the following message from the LORD: “I am going to punish Jerusalem and all its people, as written in the book that the king has read. 
The metalworker takes a piece of metal and works with it over a fire. His strong arm swings a hammer to pound the metal into shape. As he works, he gets hungry, thirsty, and tired. 
but it will not go well for the wicked. Their life is like a shadow and they will die young, because they do not obey God.” 
But you, our God, are kind and true and patient. You rule the universe with mercy. 
So they told David this, and he answered, “It's a great honour to become the king's son-in-law, too great for someone poor and insignificant like me.” 
Jacob answered, “You know how I have worked for you and how your flocks have prospered under my care. 
Clans of Levites who returned from exile: : Jeshua and Kadmiel (descendants of Hodaviah) — 74 : Temple musicians (descendants of Asaph) — 148 : Temple guards (descendants of Shallum, Ater, Talmon, Akkub, Hatita, and Shobai) — 138 
Do not bring disgrace on my holy name; all the people of Israel must acknowledge me to be holy. I am the LORD and I make you holy; 
The nations will see this and be frustrated in spite of all their strength. In dismay they will close their mouths and cover their ears. 
The Sovereign LORD says, : “You will drink from your sister's cup; : it is large and deep. : Everyone will scorn and mock you; : the cup is full. 
So Moses, Aaron, and all the people of Israel dedicated the Levites, as the LORD commanded Moses. 
“Sew tassels on the four corners of your clothes. 
Then I said, “What you are doing is wrong! You ought to obey God and do what's right. Then you would not give our enemies, the Gentiles, any reason to ridicule us. 
From top to bottom the lampstand was made of hammered gold, according to the pattern that the LORD had shown Moses. 
Remember now what you told Moses: ‘If you people of Israel are unfaithful to me, I will scatter you among the other nations. 
I call to you, LORD; : don't let me be disgraced. : May the wicked be disgraced; : may they go silently down to the world of the dead. 
So the LORD said to me, 
Tyre has built fortifications for herself and has piled up so much silver and gold that it is as common as dirt! 
Isaiah told the king to put a paste made of figs on his boil, and he would get well. 
But the solid foundation that God has laid cannot be shaken; and on it are written these words: “The Lord knows those who are his” and “All who say that they belong to the Lord must turn away from wrongdoing.” 
When Joshua and his men saw that the others had taken the city and that it was on fire, they turned round and began killing the men of Ai. 
He shot his arrows and scattered his enemies; : with flashes of lightning he sent them running. 
Sing to the LORD, and praise him! : Proclaim every day the good news that he has saved us. 
He filled them with knowledge and understanding : and showed them the difference between good and evil. 
Then some men stood up and told this lie against Jesus
he sent some men there with the message: “May the LORD bless you for showing your loyalty to your king by burying him. 
I was reminded of what the prophet Amos had said to the people of Bethel: : “Your festivals will be turned into funerals, : and your glad songs will become cries of grief.” : I began to weep. 
It was the will of the LORD to bring about what he had spoken to Jeroboam son of Nebat through the prophet Ahijah from Shiloh. This is why the king did not pay any attention to the people. 
Solomon's own quarters, in another court behind the Hall of Judgement, were made like the other buildings. He also built the same kind of house for his wife, the daughter of the king of Egypt. 
I tell you, then, the great love she has shown proves that her many sins have been forgiven. But whoever has been forgiven little shows only a little love.” 
and asked them, “Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you became believers?” : “We have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit,” they answered. 
In amazement and wonder they exclaimed, “These people who are talking like this are Galileans! 
And say to Archippus, “Be sure to finish the task you were given in the Lord's service.” 
When word reached the king of Judah that the armies of Syria were already in the territory of Israel, he and all his people were so terrified that they trembled like trees shaking in the wind. 
How can Christ and the Devil agree? What does a believer have in common with an unbeliever? 
Solomon also had gold furnishings made for the Temple: the altar, the table for the bread offered to God, 
As I told Moses, I have given you and all my people the entire land that you will be marching over. 
“But your people rebelled and disobeyed you; : they turned their backs on your Law. : They killed the prophets who warned them, : who told them to turn back to you. : They insulted you time after time, 
All your fortresses will be like fig trees with ripe figs: shake the trees, and the fruit falls right into your mouth! 
Every year at these three festivals all your men must come to worship me, the LORD your God. 
Hoshaiah marched behind the singers, followed by half the leaders of Judah. 
and shining with the glory of God. The city shone like a precious stone, like a jasper, clear as crystal. 
May the LORD bless you from Zion! : May you see Jerusalem prosper : all the days of your life! 
Sinners will be condemned by God : and kept apart from God's own people. 
They will go with it to the world of the dead to join those that have already fallen. And all who live under its shadow will be scattered among the nations. 
Whatever is covered up will be uncovered, and every secret will be made known.  
Now go up into the hills, get timber, and rebuild the Temple; then I will be pleased and will be worshipped as I should be. 
Then he shall examine it, and if the mildew has not changed colour, even though it has not spread, it is still unclean; you must burn the object, whether the rot is on the front or the back. 
God hung the stars in the sky — the Great Bear, : Orion, the Pleiades, and the stars of the south. 
He forgives all my sins : and heals all my diseases. 
It is your father's God who helps you, : The Almighty God who blesses you : With blessings of rain from above : And of deep waters from beneath the ground, : Blessings of many cattle and children, 
After this I looked, and there was an enormous crowd — no one could count all the people! They were from every race, tribe, nation, and language, and they stood in front of the throne and of the Lamb, dressed in white robes and holding palm branches in their hands. 
Peter followed from a distance, as far as the courtyard of the High Priest's house. He went into the courtyard and sat down with the guards to see how it would all come out. 
It was necessary for the oppressors to suffer relentless need, while your people saw how their enemies were being tormented. 
If, when the priest comes to look, the mildew has not reappeared after the house has been replastered, he shall pronounce the house ritually clean, because the mildew has been completely removed. 
Once more the angel moved ahead; he stood in a narrow place where there was no room at all to pass on either side. 
From that time Jesus began to preach his message: “Turn away from your sins, because the Kingdom of heaven is near!” 
Where could I go to escape from you? : Where could I get away from your presence? 
Joab went to Absalom's house and demanded, “Why did your servants set fire to my field?” 
The man took me through the gateway into the courtyard. There were thirty rooms built against the outer wall, and in front of them there was an area paved with stones, 
Rather, the real Jew is the person who is a Jew on the inside, that is, whose heart has been circumcised, and this is the work of God's Spirit, not of the written Law. Such a person receives praise from God, not from human beings.
You make plans to ruin others; : your tongue is like a sharp razor. : You are always inventing lies. 
The whole Law of Moses and the teachings of the prophets depend on these two commandments.” 
Then Holofernes' personal servants led Judith to a tent. She slept there until the time of the morning watch just before dawn, when she got up 
Moses said to the LORD, “The people cannot come up, because you commanded us to consider the mountain sacred and to mark a boundary round it.” 
And if your eye makes you lose your faith, take it out! It is better for you to enter the Kingdom of God with only one eye than to keep both eyes and be thrown into hell.  
No! We did it because we were afraid that in the future your descendants would say to ours, ‘What do you have to do with the LORD, the God of Israel? 
Now listen to this warning, you kings; : learn this lesson, you rulers of the world
He changed the sea into dry land; : our ancestors crossed the river on foot. : There we rejoiced because of what he did. 
But Moses pleaded with the LORD his God and said, “LORD, why should you be so angry with your people, whom you rescued from Egypt with great might and power? 
Do you think you were the first person born? : Were you there when God made the mountains? 
“Now, my children, follow my instructions. Worship God sincerely and do what is pleasing to him. 
The greatest of his brothers and the pride of his people was the High Priest Simon son of Onias, who repaired the Temple 
He told his men to gather some rocks and pile them up. Then they ate a meal beside the pile of rocks. 
Delilah said to Samson, “You're still making a fool of me and not telling me the truth. Tell me how someone could tie you up.” : He answered, “If you weave my seven locks of hair into a loom, and make it tight with a peg, I'll be as weak as anybody else.” 
As soon as Jehudi finished reading three or four columns, the king cut them off with a small knife and threw them into the fire. He kept doing this until the entire scroll was burnt up. 
He gives the lonely a home to live in : and leads prisoners out into happy freedom, : but rebels will have to live in a desolate land. 
Then they sang a hymn and went out to the Mount of Olives. 
Then the second one married the woman, and he also died without having children. The same thing happened to the third brother, 
God's plan is to make known his secret to his people, this rich and glorious secret which he has for all peoples. And the secret is that Christ is in you, which means that you will share in the glory of God. 
Sell all your belongings and give the money to the poor. Provide for yourselves purses that don't wear out, and save your riches in heaven, where they will never decrease, because no thief can get to them, and no moth can destroy them.  
The LORD said to Moses, 
Then I broke the second stick, the one called “Unity”, and the unity of Judah and Israel was shattered. 
In the same way, when you see these things happening, you will know that the time is near, ready to begin.  
son of Zerahiah, son of Uzzi, son of Bukki, 
I want someone to plead with God for me, : as one pleads for a friend. 
Locusts came down out of the smoke upon the earth, and they were given the same kind of power that scorpions have. 
May I never be able to play the harp again : if I forget you, Jerusalem! 
You are going to have a son, and you will name him Ishmael, because the LORD has heard your cry of distress. 
I am a free man, nobody's slave; but I make myself everybody's slave in order to win as many people as possible. 
She ruled Ethiopia and Egypt, there was no limit to her power; Libya was her ally. 
They went to Balaam and gave him this message from Balak: “Please don't let anything prevent you from coming to me! 
The LORD saw the terrible suffering of the Israelites; there was no one at all to help them. 
If you are young, don't speak unless you have to, but never more than twice, and only if someone speaks to you first. 
so that the wheels could move in any of the four directions. 
Gain the confidence of your neighbour if he is poor; then you can share his happiness if he becomes successful. Stand by him when he is in trouble if you want to share with him when better times come his way. 
Do not challenge a person who has influence; you may fall into his power. 
The world cannot hate you, but it hates me, because I keep telling it that its ways are bad.  
Then I saw a great white throne and the one who sits on it. Earth and heaven fled from his presence and were seen no more. 
I will keep my solemn promise : to obey your just instructions. 
I, the LORD Almighty, am king. : I am the living God. : As Mount Tabor towers above the mountains : and Mount Carmel stands high above the sea, : so will be the strength of the one who attacks you. 
At the town of Dibon the river is red with blood, and God has something even worse in store for the people there. Yes, there will be a bloody slaughter of everyone left in Moab.
He went a little farther on, threw himself face downwards on the ground, and prayed, “My Father, if it is possible, take this cup of suffering from me! Yet not what I want, but what you want.” 
They lived near the Temple, because it was their duty to guard it and to open the gates every morning. 
Will I not punish them for these things? : Will I not take revenge on a nation like this? : I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
When justice is done, good people are happy, but evil people are brought to despair. 
you would go to a heap of corn expecting to find 200 kilogrammes, but there would be only a hundred. You would go to draw a hundred litres of wine from a vat, but find only forty. 
I will do what you have asked. I will give you more wisdom and understanding than anyone has ever had before or will ever have again. 
In the past, even when Saul was still our king, you led the people of Israel in battle, and the LORD your God promised you that you would lead his people and be their ruler.” 
And Agrippa said to Festus, “This man could have been released if he had not appealed to the Emperor.”
O LORD, you give me light; : you dispel my darkness. 
Baasha son of Ahijah, of the tribe of Issachar, plotted against Nadab and killed him as Nadab and his army were besieging the city of Gibbethon in Philistia. 
Moses and Aaron and his sons were to camp in front of the Tent on the east. They were responsible for carrying out the services performed in the Holy Place for the people of Israel. Anyone else who tried to do so was to be put to death. 
Call the Assyrians now and surrender to them, and let Holofernes and his army take the town and loot it. 
Make the tent you live in larger; : lengthen its ropes and strengthen the pegs! 
I took charge and made the decisions; : I led them as a king leads his troops, : and gave them comfort in their despair.
We turned away from you, : but soon we wanted to return. : After you had punished us, : we hung our heads in grief. : We were ashamed and disgraced, : because we sinned when we were young.’ 
All will go well with you if you honour the LORD your God, serve him, listen to him, and obey his commands, and if you and your king follow him. 
Anathoth, and Almon, with their pasture lands. 
But Esau said, “I have enough, my brother; keep what you have.” 
Nor does the Father himself judge anyone. He has given his Son the full right to judge,  
Judas son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became the traitor. 
Timothy, my fellow-worker, sends you his greetings; and so do Lucius, Jason, and Sosipater, fellow-Jews. 
Some of it fell on rocky ground, and when the plants sprouted, they dried up because the soil had no moisture.  
He is like a man who, in building his house, dug deep and laid the foundation on rock. The river overflowed and hit that house but could not shake it, because it was well built.  
“LORD, our crimes against you are many. Our sins accuse us. We are well aware of them all. 
The LORD Almighty has sworn by his own life that he will bring many men to attack Babylonia like a swarm of locusts, and they will shout with victory. 
“Ask the LORD your God to give you a sign. It can be from deep in the world of the dead or from high up in heaven.” 
a time is coming when everything in your palace, everything that your ancestors have stored up to this day, will be carried off to Babylonia. Nothing will be left. 
God has blocked the way, and I can't get through; : he has hidden my path in darkness. 
The hills melt like wax before the LORD, : before the Lord of all the earth. 
About six weeks later, two of Sennacherib's sons assassinated him and then escaped to the mountains of Ararat. Another son, Esarhaddon, became emperor and put Ahikar, my brother Anael's son, in charge of all the financial affairs of the empire. 
I hate the company of the evil : and avoid the wicked. 
The LORD says, “I will bring disaster on the earth and punish all wicked people for their sins. I will humble everyone who is proud and punish everyone who is arrogant and cruel. 
One of them answered, “No one is, Your Majesty. The prophet Elisha tells the king of Israel what you say even in the privacy of your own room.” 
They were calling out to each other: : “Holy, holy, holy! : The LORD Almighty is holy! : His glory fills the world.” 
But the prophet from Judah answered, “I can't go home with you or accept your hospitality. And I won't eat or drink anything with you here, 
Simon Peter said to the others, “I am going fishing.” : “We will come with you,” they told him. So they went out in a boat, but all that night they did not catch a thing. 
“Then you and your sons go into the house, close the door, and start pouring oil into the jars. Set each one aside as soon as it is full.” 
“Respect your father and your mother, so that you may live a long time in the land that I am giving you. 
The greatest heroes and those who fought on the Egyptian side welcome the Egyptians to the world of the dead. They shout: ‘The ungodly who were killed in battle have come down here, and here they lie!’ 
So it is with faith: if it is alone and includes no actions, then it is dead. 
if we are being questioned today about the good deed done to the lame man and how he was healed, 
A father who loves his son will whip him often, so that he can be proud of him later. 
Everything comes from the Lord: success and failure, poverty and wealth, life and death. 
Pilate wanted to set Jesus free, so he appealed to the crowd again. 
“Benjamin is like a vicious wolf. : Morning and evening he kills and devours.” 
He buried it in his own family grave, and he and his sons mourned over it, saying, “Oh my brother, my brother!” 
So King Solomon finished building the Temple. He put in a ceiling made of beams and boards of cedar. 
the priest shall examine that person. If the spots are dull white, it is only a blemish that has broken out on the skin; the person is ritually clean. 
May the LORD, who made heaven and earth, : bless you from Zion!
Abigail quickly collected 200 loaves of bread, two leather bags full of wine, five roasted sheep, seventeen kilogrammes of roasted grain, a hundred bunches of raisins, and 200 cakes of dried figs, and loaded them on donkeys. 
I am testing my people, : and if they refuse to repent, : all these things will happen to them. 
The people of Israel must no longer be unfaithful to the LORD by killing their animals in the fields as sacrifices to the goat-demons. The people of Israel must keep this regulation for all time to come. 
“Once there were two men who went up to the Temple to pray: one was a Pharisee, the other a tax collector. 
No man or woman is to have sexual relations with an animal; that perversion makes you ritually unclean. 
Shall we say, then, that God is unjust? Not at all. 
He put the shirt and the robe on Aaron and the sash round his waist. He put the ephod on him and fastened it by putting its finely woven belt round his waist. 
“Those who accept my commandments and obey them are the ones who love me. My Father will love those who love me; I too will love them and reveal myself to them.” 
From then on Gideon was known as Jerubbaal, because Joash said, “Let Baal defend himself; it is his altar that was torn down.” 
In the fourteenth year of the reign of King Hezekiah, Sennacherib, the emperor of Assyria, attacked the fortified cities of Judah and conquered them. 
Wickedness is cowardly in itself and stands self-condemned. Someone with a guilty conscience will always imagine things to be worse than they really are. 
So while Joab was besieging the city, he sent Uriah to a place where he knew the enemy was strong. 
Then Jesus said to them, “How foolish you are, how slow you are to believe everything the prophets said!  
Your sister church in Babylon, also chosen by God, sends you greetings, and so does my son Mark. 
So then, my brothers and sisters, try even harder to make God's call and his choice of you a permanent experience; if you do so, you will never abandon your faith.  
You know good food when you taste it, : but not wise words when you hear them. 
‘This is what I will do in the last days, God says: : I will pour out my Spirit on everyone. : Your sons and daughters will proclaim my message; : your young men will see visions, : and your old men will have dreams. 
When the Lamb broke open the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour. 
Now, concerning what you wrote about unmarried people: I do not have a command from the Lord, but I give my opinion as one who by the Lord's mercy is worthy of trust. 
A church helper must have only one wife, and be able to manage his children and family well. 
Instead, as it is said somewhere in the Scriptures: : “What are human beings, O God, that you should think of them; : mere human beings, that you should care for them? 
And he said to the man, “You listened to your wife and ate the fruit which I told you not to eat. Because of what you have done, the ground will be under a curse. You will have to work hard all your life to make it produce enough food for you. 
young men stepped aside as soon as they saw me, : and old men stood up to show me respect. 
We follow your will and put our hope in you; : you are all that we desire. 
“When an evil spirit goes out of a person, it travels over dry country looking for a place to rest. If it can't find one,  
The moon will grow dark, and the sun will no longer shine, for the LORD Almighty will be king. He will rule in Jerusalem on Mount Zion, and the leaders of the people will see his glory.
This is the message that the LORD gave Malachi to tell the people of Israel. 
I say to the LORD, “You are my God.” : Hear my cry for help, LORD! 
Issachar and his sons: Tola, Puah, Jashub, and Shimron. 
both Jews and Gentiles converted to Judaism, and some of us are from Crete and Arabia — yet all of us hear them speaking in our own languages about the great things that God has done!” 
Shallum son of Jabesh conspired against King Zechariah, assassinated him at Ibleam, and succeeded him as king. 
It is only good for building a fire. And when the ends are burnt up and the middle is charred, can you make anything out of it? 
The High Priest, properly ordained and consecrated to succeed his father, is to perform the ritual of purification. He shall put on the priestly garments 
One of David's men saw him and reported to Joab, “Sir, I saw Absalom hanging in an oak tree!” 
So wake up, and strengthen what you still have before it dies completely. For I find that what you have done is not yet perfect in the sight of my God.  
After the thousand years are over, Satan will be let loose from his prison, 
You are my defender and protector; : I put my hope in your promise. 
Wicked people bring about their own downfall by their evil deeds, but good people are protected by their integrity. 
One of the Israelites took a Midianite woman into his tent in the sight of Moses and the whole community, while they were mourning at the entrance of the Tent of the LORD's presence. 
Everyone who is left in Jerusalem, whom God has chosen for survival, will be called holy. 
But the time will come when the people of Israel will once again turn to the LORD their God, and to a descendant of David their king. Then they will fear the LORD and will receive his good gifts.
When you have gathered your grapes once, do not go back over the vines a second time; the grapes that are left are for the foreigners, orphans, and widows. 
I kept sending you my servants the prophets, who told you not to do this terrible thing that I hate. 
Jesus grew both in body and in wisdom, gaining favour with God and people.
Those who depend on their wealth will fall like the leaves of autumn, but the righteous will prosper like the leaves of summer. 
Yes, the living know they are going to die, but the dead know nothing. They have no further reward; they are completely forgotten. 
I found something more bitter than death — the woman who is like a trap. The love she offers you will catch you like a net; and her arms round you will hold you like a chain. A man who pleases God can get away, but she will catch the sinner. 
sold a field he owned, brought the money, and handed it over to the apostles.
So on the seventh day, before Samson went into the bedroom, the men of the city said to him, : “What could be sweeter than honey? : What could be stronger than a lion?” : Samson replied, : “If you hadn't been ploughing with my cow, : You wouldn't know the answer now.” 
Separate the Levites in this way from the rest of the Israelites, so that they will belong to me. 
Mephibosheth bowed again and said, “I am no better than a dead dog, sir! Why should you be so good to me?” 
You can speak to him and tell him what to say. I will help both of you to speak, and I will tell you both what to do. 
and the Benjaminites realized they were defeated. : The main body of the Israelite army had retreated from the Benjaminites because they were relying on the men that they had put in hiding round Gibeah. 
with Elizaphan son of Uzziel as chief of the clan. 
He told his wife and all his friends everything that had happened to him. Then she and those wise friends of his said to him, “You are beginning to lose power to Mordecai. He is a Jew, and you cannot overcome him. He will certainly defeat you.” 
But everyone in Israel and Judah loved David because he was such a successful leader. 
Now, on the day it has fallen, : The islands are trembling, : And their people are shocked at such destruction.” 
All of them lie to one another; : they deceive each other with flattery. 
Reuben, the eldest of Jacob's sons, had four sons: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi. 
Isaac said, “How did you find it so quickly, my son?” : Jacob answered, “The LORD your God helped me to find it.” 
Then King Solomon and all the people there offered sacrifices to the LORD. 
Balaam answered, “Didn't I tell you that I had to do everything that the LORD told me?” 
Jesus answered, “If you were blind, then you would not be guilty; but since you claim that you can see, this means that you are still guilty.”
You say, “Let the LORD hurry up and do what he says he will, so that we can see it. Let Israel's holy God carry out his plans; let's see what he has in mind.” 
When his enemies were threatening him from every side, he called upon the mighty Lord and offered him a young lamb as a sacrifice. 
and said to them, “Whoever welcomes this child in my name, welcomes me; and whoever welcomes me, also welcomes the one who sent me. For the one who is least among you all is the greatest.” 
and write on them all these laws and teachings. When you have entered the rich and fertile land that the LORD, the God of your ancestors, promised you, 
He came to a cave close to some sheep pens by the road and went in to relieve himself. It happened to be the very cave in which David and his men were hiding far back in the cave. 
Tell the Israelites that I, the LORD, the God of their ancestors, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, have sent you to them. This is my name for ever; this is what all future generations are to call me. 
Then David fled from Naioth in Ramah and went to Jonathan. “What have I done?” he asked. “What crime have I committed? What wrong have I done to your father to make him want to kill me?” 
“Afterwards I will pour out my Spirit on everyone: : your sons and daughters will proclaim my message; : your old people will have dreams, : and your young people will see visions. 
He also gave him the plans for all he had in mind for the courtyards and the rooms around them, and for the storerooms for the temple equipment and the gifts dedicated to the LORD. 
They drove out many demons, and rubbed olive oil on many sick people and healed them. 
When good people come to power, everybody celebrates, but when bad people rule, people stay in hiding. 
After King Josiah had done all this for the Temple, King Neco of Egypt led an army to fight at Carchemish on the River Euphrates. Josiah tried to stop him, 
I am going to send a flood on the earth to destroy every living being. Everything on the earth will die, 
And the LORD changed the east wind into a very strong west wind, which picked up the locusts and blew them into the Gulf of Suez. Not one locust was left in all Egypt. 
King Nebuchadnezzar deported Jehozadak along with the other people of Judah and Jerusalem whom the LORD sent into exile. 
Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah were the daughters of Zelophehad son of Hepher, son of Gilead, son of Machir, son of Manasseh, son of Joseph. 
He took the rest of the bull, including its skin, flesh, and intestines, and burnt it outside the camp, just as the LORD had commanded. 
He was also angry with Job's three friends. They could find no way to answer Job, and this made it appear that God was in the wrong. 
He will live with you as long as you have anything and will gladly drain you dry. 
I will bring you, my people Israel, back to live again in the land. It will be your own land, and it will never again let your children starve. 
You are no match for even the lowest ranking Assyrian official, and yet you expect the Egyptians to send you chariots and cavalry. 
Go and make sure once more; find out for certain where he is and who has seen him there. I hear that he is very cunning. 
Ahi, the son of Abdiel and grandson of Guni, was head of these clans. 
Won't all their livestock and everything else they own be ours? So let us agree that they can live among us.” 
God is the one who made the mountains : and created the winds. : He makes his thoughts known to people; : he changes day into night. : He walks on the heights of the earth. : This is his name: the LORD God Almighty!
And what you sow is a bare seed, perhaps a grain of wheat or some other grain, not the full-bodied plant that will later grow up. 
The day is near when the LORD will sit in judgement; so be silent in his presence. The LORD is preparing to sacrifice his people and has invited enemies to plunder Judah. 
“My word is like the snow and the rain : that come down from the sky to water the earth. : They make the crops grow : and provide seed for sowing and food to eat. 
One day the group of prophets that Elisha was in charge of complained to him, “The place where we live is too small! 
From this share Moses took one out of every fifty prisoners and animals, and as the LORD had commanded, gave them to the Levites who were in charge of the LORD's Tent. 
Praise the LORD! : You servants of the LORD, : praise his name! 
and in his name the message about repentance and the forgiveness of sins must be preached to all nations, beginning in Jerusalem.  
Paul stood up, motioned with his hand, and began to speak: : “Fellow-Israelites and all Gentiles here who worship God: hear me! 
As the members of the Council listened to Stephen, they became furious and ground their teeth at him in anger. 
I said to them, “If you are willing, give me my wages. But if not, keep them.” So they paid me thirty pieces of silver as my wages. 
the blind can see, the lame can walk, those who suffer from dreaded skin diseases are made clean,  the deaf hear, the dead are brought back to life, and the Good News is preached to the poor.  
I finished telling the people everything that the LORD their God had sent me to tell them. 
The king, however, remained stubborn and, just as the LORD had said, the king would not listen to Moses and Aaron. 
About the tribes of Zebulun and Issachar he said: : “May Zebulun be prosperous in their trade on the sea, : And may Issachar's wealth increase at home. 
People will see this and know : that I, the LORD, have done it. : They will come to understand : that Israel's holy God has made it happen.” 
Some time later, while Sennacherib and his army were still at Lachish, he sent the following message to Hezekiah and the people of Judah who were with him in Jerusalem
Afterwards, you know, he wanted to receive his father's blessing; but he was turned away, because he could not find any way to change what he had done, even though in tears he looked for it. 
Stop your crying : and wipe away your tears. : All that you have done for your children : will not go unrewarded; : they will return from the enemy's land. 
So they took Paul, brought him before the city council, the Areopagus, and said, “We would like to know what this new teaching is that you are talking about. 
When he saw Jesus, he gave a loud cry, threw himself down at his feet, and shouted, “Jesus, Son of the Most High God! What do you want with me? I beg you, don't punish me!” 
Happy is the one who reads this book, and happy are those who listen to the words of this prophetic message and obey what is written in this book! For the time is near when all these things will happen. 
Rehoboam remained in Jerusalem and had fortifications built for the following cities of Judah and Benjamin
All my life I have taken care of them. 
The LORD said to the prophet Elijah, 
We were in pain and agony, : but we gave birth to nothing. : We have won no victory for our land; : we have accomplished nothing. 
Go and cry out to the gods you have chosen. Let them rescue you when you get into trouble.” 
So the LORD was with him, and he was successful in everything he did. He rebelled against the emperor of Assyria and refused to submit to him. 
Its original inhabitants had fled to Gittaim, where they have lived ever since.) 
When someone is weak, then I feel weak too; when someone is led into sin, I am filled with distress. 
“If you obey all my laws and commands, I will do for you what I promised your father David. 
Young men were killed in war, : and young women had no one to marry. 
It makes no difference. The same fate comes to the righteous and the wicked, to the good and the bad, to those who are religious and those who are not, to those who offer sacrifices and those who do not. A good person is no better off than a sinner; one who takes an oath is no better off than one who does not. 
In all there were 5400 gold and silver bowls and other articles which Sheshbazzar took with him when he and the other exiles went from Babylon to Jerusalem.
So a thousand men were chosen from each tribe, a total of 12,000 men ready for battle. 
“Choose twelve men, one from each tribe, 
Enable me to speak the truth at all times, : because my hope is in your judgements. 
Come to the Temple, LORD, with the Covenant Box, : the symbol of your power, : and stay here for ever. 
So Jehoiachin was permitted to change from his prison clothes and to dine at the king's table for the rest of his life. 
When Abigail saw David, she quickly dismounted and threw herself on the ground 
How are the wise better off than fools? What good does it do the poor to know how to face life? 
David's men had killed 360 of Abner's men from the tribe of Benjamin. 
For this purpose I am sending to you Timothy, who is my own dear and faithful son in the Christian life. He will remind you of the principles which I follow in the new life in union with Christ Jesus and which I teach in all the churches everywhere. 
After his brothers had gone to the festival, Jesus also went; however, he did not go openly, but secretly. 
How I want to be there! : I long to be in the LORD's Temple. : With my whole being I sing for joy : to the living God. 
If you have any more sons, they will not be considered mine; the inheritance they get will come through Ephraim and Manasseh. 
Solomon followed his ancestors in death and left one of his sons to rule after him. This was Rehoboam, a man of little intelligence and great foolishness, whose policies caused a rebellion. : There was also the unspeakable Jeroboam, who led northern Israel in sinful ways. 
I will take nothing for myself. I will accept only what my men have used. But let my allies, Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre, take their share.”
So Ishmael went out from Mizpah to meet them, weeping as he went. When he came to them, he said, “Please come in to see Gedaliah.” 
So Daniel went to Arioch, whom the king had commanded to execute the royal advisers. He said to him, “Don't put them to death. Take me to the king, and I will tell him what his dream means.” 
During the time that Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah were kings of Judah, the LORD gave this message to Micah, who was from the town of Moresheth. The LORD revealed to Micah all these things about Samaria and Jerusalem. 
and the cloud left the Tent, Miriam's skin was suddenly covered with a dreaded disease and turned as white as snow. When Aaron looked at her and saw that she was covered with the disease, 
On all the housetops of Moab and in all its public squares there is nothing but mourning, because I have broken Moab like a jar that no one wants. 
His helper, Oholiab son of Ahisamach, from the tribe of Dan, was an engraver, a designer, and a weaver of fine linen and of blue, purple, and red wool. 
When he got there, he called out anxiously, “Daniel, servant of the living God! Was the God you serve so loyally able to save you from the lions?” 
To God, my defender, I say, : “Why have you forgotten me? : Why must I go on suffering : from the cruelty of my enemies?” 
Don't treat important people as if you were their equal and don't make a nuisance of yourself by asking them a lot of questions.  
And if someone takes you to court to sue you for your shirt, let him have your coat as well.  
enemies surrounded me everywhere. : I looked for someone to help me, : but there was no one there. 
When the crowd gathered and began to ask Pilate for the usual favour, 
I know that good does not live in me — that is, in my human nature. For even though the desire to do good is in me, I am not able to do it. 
Jesus answered, “I tell you that if they keep quiet, the stones themselves will start shouting.” 
The LORD said to Joshua, “Get up! Why are you lying on the ground like this? 
When that day comes, people will turn for help to their Creator, the holy God of Israel. 
They will vanish like a dream, like a vision at night, : and never be seen again. 
That is why I have sent my prophets to you with my message of judgement and destruction. What I want from you is plain and clear
As Jesus was teaching in the Temple, he asked the question, “How can the teachers of the Law say that the Messiah will be the descendant of David?  
But when I screamed, he ran outside, leaving his robe beside me.” 
Then Joseph had another dream and said to his brothers, “I had another dream, in which I saw the sun, the moon, and eleven stars bowing down to me.” 
He talked with Joab (whose mother was Zeruiah) and with Abiathar the priest, and they agreed to support his cause. 
The people reply, : “Who would have believed what we now report? : Who could have seen the LORD's hand in this? 
so bring together all the peoples round you, : and rule over them from above. 
At that time King Jeroboam's son Abijah fell ill. 
My breath was the spicy smell of cinnamon, : of sweet perfume and finest myrrh, : of stacte, onycha, and galbanum, : the fragrant incense in the sacred Tent. 
Rachel said, “I have fought a hard fight with my sister, but I have won”; so she named him Naphtali. 
The older one was named Oholah (she represents Samaria), and the younger one was named Oholibah (she represents Jerusalem). I married both of them, and they bore me children. 
but a spring or a cistern remains clean, although anything else that touches their dead bodies is unclean. 
Give me a chance to speak and then, : when I am through, sneer if you like. 
Moses and Eleazar obeyed, and called together all the men of that age group. They assembled in the plains of Moab across the River Jordan from Jericho. : These were the Israelites who came out of Egypt
There is much we have to say about this matter, but it is hard to explain to you, because you are so slow to understand. 
So Samuel prayed, and on that same day the LORD sent thunder and rain. Then all the people became afraid of the LORD and of Samuel, 
(I use everyday language because of the weakness of your natural selves.) At one time you surrendered yourselves entirely as slaves to impurity and wickedness for wicked purposes. In the same way you must now surrender yourselves entirely as slaves of righteousness for holy purposes. 
The priest shall dip his finger in the blood of the animal, put it on the projections at the corners of the altar, and pour out the rest of it at the base of the altar. 
With a soldier's sharp arrows, : with red-hot charcoal! 
I am about to punish you prophets who have false visions and make misleading predictions. You will not be there when my people gather to make decisions; your names will not be included in the list of the citizens of Israel; you will never return to your land. Then you will know that I am the Sovereign LORD. 
Isaiah left the king, but before he had passed through the central courtyard of the palace the LORD told him 
A modest wife has endless charm; it is a quality too precious to measure. 
I will make you a terrifying example, and that will be the end of you. People may look for you, but you will never be found.” The Sovereign LORD has spoken.
When the dead have been laid to rest, let the memory of them fade. Once they are gone, take courage. 
Why must you persecute me as God does? : Haven't you tormented me enough? 
But now, be afraid of the sword — : the sword that brings God's wrath on sin, : so that you will know there is one who judges.
There is no other god like you, O LORD; you forgive the sins of your people who have survived. You do not stay angry for ever, but you take pleasure in showing us your constant love. 
Each family in the land will mourn by itself: the family descended from David, the family descended from Nathan, the family descended from Levi, the family descended from Shimei, and all the other families. Each family will mourn by itself, and the men of each family will mourn separately from the women.
and since you are her closest relative, you have the right to marry her. You also have the right to inherit all her father's property. 
Moses had two sons, Gershom and Eliezer. 
The Benjaminites did this; each of them chose a wife from the women who were dancing at Shiloh and carried her away. Then they went back to their own territory, rebuilt their towns, and lived there. 
Curse the one who made my father glad : by bringing him the news, : “It's a boy! You have a son!” 
Praise the LORD your God! He has shown how pleased he is with you by making you king of Israel. Because his love for Israel is eternal, he has made you their king so that you can maintain law and justice.” 
In the first place, I have been told that there are opposing groups in your meetings; and this I believe is partly true. 
Can anyone really say that his conscience is clear, that he has got rid of his sin? 
As Jesus and his disciples went on their way, he came to a village where a woman named Martha welcomed him in her home. 
This is what the LORD has decreed about the Assyrians: “They will have no descendants to carry on their name. I will destroy the idols that are in the temples of their gods. I am preparing a grave for the Assyrians — they don't deserve to live!” 
I am trembling; you have made me as eager for love : as a chariot driver is for battle. 
“Again and again they sent messengers to invite men to come from a great distance, and the men came. The two sisters would bathe and put on eye shadow and jewellery. 
Come on! Let's make love all night long. We'll be happy in each other's arms. 
Jesus went back again to the shore of Lake Galilee. A crowd came to him, and he started teaching them. 
and he said to the LORD, “Why have you treated me so badly? Why are you displeased with me? Why have you given me the responsibility for all these people? 
“If you love me, you will obey my commandments.  
Well, religion does make a person very rich, if he is satisfied with what he has. 
Insults have broken my heart, : and I am in despair. : I had hoped for sympathy, but there was none; : for comfort, but I found none. 
Zedekiah will be taken to Babylonia, and he will remain there until I deal with him. Even if he fights the Babylonians, he will not be successful. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
So there were eight frames and sixteen silver bases, two under each frame. 
like reeds along a river bank, withering before any other plant. 
So Joshua sent some men, who ran to the tent and found that the condemned things really were buried there, with the silver at the bottom. 
He sees into the oceans and into the human heart, : and he knows the secrets of both. : The Most High knows everything that can be known : and understands the signs of the ages. 
She really is my sister. She is the daughter of my father, but not of my mother, and I married her. 
Many of the exiles left the province of Babylon and returned to Jerusalem and Judah, all to their own cities. Their families had been living in exile in Babylonia ever since King Nebuchadnezzar had taken them there as prisoners. 
The hilltop shrines of Aven, where the people of Israel worship idols, will be destroyed. Thorns and weeds will grow up over their altars. The people will call out to the mountains, “Hide us!” and to the hills, “Cover us!” 
Isaac answered, “Your brother came and deceived me. He has taken away your blessing.” 
“But the LORD said to me, ‘Warn them not to attack, for I will not be with them, and their enemies will defeat them.’ 
‘Well done,’ he said; ‘you are a good servant! Since you were faithful in small matters, I will put you in charge of ten cities.’  
When he was about to cross the border into Egypt, he said to his wife Sarai, “You are a beautiful woman. 
Two years later Absalom was having his sheep sheared at Baal Hazor, near the town of Ephraim, and he invited all the king's sons to be there. 
Now listen to me, if you are wise. 
Remember, I will be with you and protect you wherever you go, and I will bring you back to this land. I will not leave you until I have done all that I have promised you.” 
Every tree is known by the fruit it bears; you do not pick figs from thorn bushes or gather grapes from bramble bushes.  
King Hezekiah asked, “What is the sign to prove that the LORD will heal me and that three days later I will be able to go to the Temple?” 
Whatever is hidden away will be brought out into the open, and whatever is covered up will be uncovered.  
If his master gave him a wife and she bore him sons or daughters, the woman and her children belong to the master, and the man shall leave by himself. 
And so an enemy will surround their land, destroy their defences, and plunder their mansions.” 
So Moses held out his hand over the sea, and at daybreak the water returned to its normal level. The Egyptians tried to escape from the water, but the LORD threw them into the sea. 
When the old prophet heard about it, he said, “That is the prophet who disobeyed the LORD's command! And so the LORD sent the lion to attack and kill him, just as the LORD said he would.” 
My lover is handsome and strong; : he is one in 10,000. 
He does not ruin the wheat by threshing it endlessly, and he knows how to thresh it by driving a cart over it without bruising the grains. 
The priests break my law and have no respect for what is holy. They make no distinction between what is holy and what is not. They do not teach the difference between clean and unclean things, and they ignore the Sabbath. As a result the people of Israel do not respect me. 
“Happy are those who know they are spiritually poor; :   the Kingdom of heaven belongs to them! 
Be joyful always, 
Boaz answered, “I have heard about everything that you have done for your mother-in-law since your husband died. I know how you left your father and mother and your own country and how you came to live among a people you had never known before. 
You will be able to resist any immoral woman who tries to seduce you with her smooth talk, 
So some of the king's advisers who were close to him suggested, “Why don't you make a search to find some beautiful young virgins? 
Hathach went to Mordecai in the city square at the entrance of the palace. 
While they all watched, the man got up, picked up his mat, and hurried away. They were all completely amazed and praised God, saying, “We have never seen anything like this!” 
Then the Spirit of God took control of Zechariah son of Jehoiada the priest. He stood where the people could see him and called out, “The LORD God asks why you have disobeyed his commands and are bringing disaster on yourselves! You abandoned him, so he has abandoned you!” 
At the sight of this, people feel stupid and senseless; : those who make idols are disillusioned : because the gods they make are false and lifeless. 
If the man is offering a bird as a burnt offering, it must be a dove or a pigeon. 
He gave the poor a fair trial, : and all went well with him. : That is what it means to know the LORD. 
We do not want anyone to find fault with our work, so we try not to put obstacles in anyone's way. 
The emperor of Assyria boasts, “I have done it all myself. I am strong and wise and clever. I wiped out the boundaries between nations and took the supplies they had stored. Like a bull I have trampled on the people who live there. 
As the Lord's servant, you must not quarrel. You must be kind towards all, a good and patient teacher, 
Then the Assyrian emperor Sennacherib withdrew and returned to Nineveh. 
If you are disloyal and join with the nations that are still left among you and intermarry with them, 
You are no match for even the lowest ranking Assyrian official, and yet you expect the Egyptians to send you chariots and horsemen! 
The land is full of people unfaithful to the LORD; : they live wicked lives and misuse their power. : Because of the LORD's curse the land mourns : and the pastures are dry. 
So we went on rebuilding the wall, and soon it was half its full height, because the people were eager to work. 
he shall put his hand on its head and kill it in front of the Tent. The priests shall throw its blood against all four sides of the altar 
Be quiet and give me a chance to speak, : and let the results be what they will. 
with two matching projections, so that the frames can be joined together. All the frames are to have these projections. 
May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
Yes, I've heard all that before. : But how can a human being win a case against God? 
God speaks to make them stop their sinning : and to save them from becoming proud. 
Such wisdom does not come down from heaven; it belongs to the world, it is unspiritual and demonic. 
So the trees then said to the grapevine, ‘You come and be our king.’ 
The Ammonite idol Molech had a gold crown which weighed about 34 kilogrammes. In it there was a jewel, which David took and put in his own crown. He also took a large amount of loot from the city. 
Jesus said to them, “Prophets are respected everywhere except in their own home town and by their relatives and their family.” 
It is foolish to speak scornfully of others. If you are sensible, you will keep quiet. 
They made the ephod of fine linen; blue, purple, and red wool; and gold thread. 
For surely you know that when we were baptized into union with Christ Jesus, we were baptized into union with his death. 
Aaron and his descendants presented the offerings of incense and offered the sacrifices that were burnt on the altar. They were responsible for all the worship in the Most Holy Place and for the sacrifices by which God forgives Israel's sins. They did all this in accordance with the instructions given by Moses, God's servant. 
Then I thought, “These are only the poor and ignorant. : They behave foolishly; : they don't know what their God requires, : what the LORD wants them to do. 
So now the LORD, the God of Israel, who rescued Abraham from trouble, says, “My people, you will not be disgraced any longer, and your faces will no longer be pale with shame. 
In the days before the flood people ate and drank, men and women married, up to the very day Noah went into the boat;  
If any nation refuses to go and worship the LORD Almighty as king, then rain will not fall on their land. 
“I will bring you gold instead of bronze, : Silver and bronze instead of iron and wood, : And iron instead of stone. : Your rulers will no longer oppress you; : I will make them rule with justice and peace. 
No one could stand up to him; he was fighting a holy war for the Lord. 
Help your fellow-Israelites until they occupy the land that the LORD is giving them west of the Jordan and until the LORD lets them live there in peace, as he has already done here for you. After that, you may return to this land which I have assigned to you.’ 
If any Israelite or any foreigner living in the community hunts an animal or a bird which is ritually clean, he must pour out its blood on the ground and cover it with earth. 
When you are full, you will refuse honey, but when you are hungry, even bitter food tastes sweet. 
The king forgot about the loyal service that Zechariah's father Jehoiada had given him, and he had Zechariah killed. As Zechariah was dying, he called out, “May the LORD see what you are doing and punish you!” 
Do you think he will trust a creature of clay, : a thing of dust that can be crushed like a moth? 
They beat him over the head with a stick, spat on him, fell on their knees, and bowed down to him. 
By no means! If God is not just, how can he judge the world? 
If anyone has ever passed this test, he can well be proud. Has anyone ever known that he could get away with cheating someone, and not taken advantage of it? 
Jesus answered him, “You do not understand now what I am doing, but you will understand later.” 
The LORD says, : “Here is my servant, whom I strengthen — : the one I have chosen, with whom I am pleased. : I have filled him with my Spirit, : and he will bring justice to every nation. 
If any of your descendants, while he is ritually unclean, comes near the sacred offerings which the people of Israel have dedicated to me, he can never again serve at the altar. This applies for all time to come. I am the LORD. 
As a result, the punishment for the murder of all innocent people will fall on you, from the murder of innocent Abel to the murder of Zachariah son of Berachiah, whom you murdered between the Temple and the altar.  
When the people of Israel heard this, the whole community came together at Shiloh to go to war against the eastern tribes. 
But the Lord says, “When I finish what I am doing on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem, I will punish the emperor of Assyria for all his boasting and all his pride.” 
The Levites purified themselves and washed their clothes, and Aaron dedicated them as a special gift to the LORD. He also performed the ritual of purification for them. 
I heard what sounded like a voice coming from among the four living creatures, which said, “A litre of wheat for a day's wages, and three litres of barley for a day's wages. But do not damage the olive trees and the vineyards!” 
I have chosen a place for my people Israel and have settled them there, where they will live without being oppressed any more. Ever since they entered this land, they have been attacked by violent people, but this will not happen again. I promise to keep you safe from all your enemies and to give you descendants. 
Those who are wise have taught me truths : which they learnt from their ancestors, : and they kept no secrets hidden. 
Joseph was upset when he saw that his father had put his right-hand on Ephraim's head; so he took his father's hand to move it from Ephraim's head to the head of Manasseh. 
Some people are like the seeds that fall along the path; as soon as they hear the message, Satan comes and takes it away.  
On the fiftieth day, the day after the seventh Sabbath, present to the LORD another new offering of corn. 
The one thing required of such servants is that they be faithful to their master. 
Perhaps my father will touch me and find out that I am deceiving him; in this way I will bring a curse on myself instead of a blessing.” 
Its posts are covered with silver; : over it is cloth embroidered with gold. : Its cushions are covered with purple cloth, : lovingly woven by the women of Jerusalem. 
The men who had begun to work at five o'clock were paid a silver coin each.  
that city which stands at the edge of the sea and does business with the people living on every seacoast. Tell her what the Sovereign LORD is saying: : “Tyre, you boasted of your perfect beauty. 
Isn't my life almost over? Leave me alone! : Let me enjoy the time I have left. 
Pride leads to destruction, and arrogance to downfall. 
No one, then, should boast about what human beings can do. Actually everything belongs to you
They kill widows and orphans, : and murder the strangers who live in our land. 
You are feared in the council of the holy ones; : and all of them stand in awe of you. 
No one who loves money can be judged innocent; his efforts to get rich have led him into sin.  
Moses said, “Eat this today, because today is the Sabbath, a day of rest dedicated to the LORD, and you will not find any food outside the camp. 
He left the place where his wife's body was lying, went to the Hittites, and said, 
On the seventh day of the month you are to do the same thing on behalf of anyone who sins unintentionally or through ignorance. In this way, you will keep the Temple holy. 
There you are to offer your sacrifices that are to be burnt and your other sacrifices, your tithes and your offerings, the gifts that you promise to the LORD, your freewill offerings, and the firstborn of your cattle and sheep. 
The other families of the Levite clan of Kohath were assigned some cities from the territory of Ephraim. 
The Philosopher tried to find comforting words, but the words he wrote were honest. 
Let all your creatures serve you. : You gave the command, : and all of them came into being; : you breathed on them, : and all of them were created. : No one can oppose your command. 
The enemy will attack Bozrah like an eagle swooping down with outspread wings. On that day Edom's soldiers will be as frightened as a woman in labour.” 
This Melchizedek was king of Salem and a priest of the Most High God. As Abraham was coming back from the battle in which he defeated the four kings, Melchizedek met him and blessed him, 
The land of Edom had no king; it was ruled by a deputy appointed by the king of Judah. 
I am like those who do not answer, : because they cannot hear. 
The Israelites, with their leaders, officers, and judges, as well as the foreigners among them, stood on two sides of the LORD's Covenant Box, facing the levitical priests who carried it. Half the people stood with their backs to Mount Gerizim and the other half with their backs to Mount Ebal. The LORD's servant Moses had commanded them to do this when the time came for them to receive the blessing. 
Then Jesus went back to Cana in Galilee, where he had turned the water into wine. A government official was there whose son was ill in Capernaum. 
The figure seemed to be shining like bronze in the middle of a fire. It shone all over with a bright light 
Then a great and mysterious sight appeared in the sky. There was a woman, whose dress was the sun and who had the moon under her feet and a crown of twelve stars on her head. 
I was eyes for the blind, : and feet for the lame. 
He went straight to the synagogues and began to preach that Jesus was the Son of God. 
and find pleasure in obeying him. : He will not judge by appearance or hearsay; 
Paul, Apollos, and Peter; this world, life and death, the present and the future — all these are yours, 
He made knowledge available to them : and gave them the Law as a source of life. 
We have been beaten, imprisoned, and mobbed; we have been overworked and have gone without sleep or food. 
I will burn as an offering the first person that comes out of my house to meet me, when I come back from the victory. I will offer that person to you as a sacrifice.” 
Moses called together all the people of Israel and said to them, “You saw for yourselves what the LORD did to the king of Egypt, to his officials, and to his entire country. 
This God is my strong refuge; : he makes my pathway safe. 
and one kilogramme with each lamb. 
What shall I bring to the LORD, the God of heaven, when I come to worship him? Shall I bring the best calves to burn as offerings to him? 
This vision about the evening and morning sacrifices which has been explained to you will come true. But keep it secret now, because it will be a long time before it does come true.” 
The foundation of the Temple was laid in the second month, the month of Ziv, in the fourth year of Solomon's reign. 
I know what you do. I know your love, your faithfulness, your service, and your patience. I know that you are doing more now than you did at first.  
Then I will say to them, ‘I never knew you. Get away from me, you wicked people!’ 
and the four men were appointed to provide the prisoners with clothing from the captured loot. They gave them clothes and sandals to wear, gave them enough to eat and drink, and put olive oil on their wounds. Those who were too weak to walk were put on donkeys, and all the prisoners were taken back to Judean territory at Jericho, the city of palm trees. Then the Israelites returned home to Samaria. 
“Listen to another parable,” Jesus said. “There was once a landowner who planted a vineyard, put a fence around it, dug a hole for the winepress, and built a watchtower. Then he let out the vineyard to tenants and went on a journey.  
Pathrus, Casluh, and of Crete, from whom the Philistines are descended. 
Moses raised his hand towards the sky, and there was total darkness throughout Egypt for three days. 
After that, he had Zedekiah's eyes put out and had him placed in chains and taken to Babylon. Zedekiah remained in prison in Babylon until the day he died. 
O LORD, our Lord, : your greatness is seen in all the world!
Jehoshaphat and his troops moved in to take the loot, and they found many cattle, supplies, clothing, and other valuable objects. They spent three days gathering the loot, but there was so much that they could not take everything. 
My people will come from far away, : from the north and the west, : and from Aswan in the south.” 
On that time, Adonijah, the son of David and Haggith, he was ambitious to be king; He provided for himself chariots, horses, and an escort of fifty men. 
For just as all people die because of their union with Adam, in the same way all will be raised to life because of their union with Christ. 
Since people are amazed at the power of these things, and how they behave, they ought to learn from them that their maker is far more powerful. 
Then Moses took the food from them and burnt it on the altar, on top of the burnt offering, as an ordination offering. This was a food offering, and the smell was pleasing to the LORD. 
One day Samson went down to Timnah, where he noticed a certain Philistine woman. 
How evil and godless are the people of this day! You ask me for a miracle? No! The only miracle you will be given is the miracle of Jonah.” : So he left them and went away. 
Giving to the poor can make up for sin, just as water can put out a blazing fire. 
then listen to their prayers. In your home in heaven hear them and be merciful to them. 
Drought comes when God withholds rain; : floods come when he turns water loose. 
The advisers and magicians were brought in to read this writing and tell me what it means, but they could not discover the meaning. 
So David did not take it with him to Jerusalem. Instead, he left it at the house of a man named Obed Edom, a native of the city of Gath. 
rams' skin dyed red; fine leather; acacia wood; 
How will anyone know that you are pleased with your people and with me if you do not go with us? Your presence with us will distinguish us from any other people on earth.” 
Babylonia hammered the whole world to pieces, and now that hammer is shattered! All the nations are shocked at what has happened to that country. 
Then Elisha went to his team of oxen, killed them, and cooked the meat, using the yoke as fuel for the fire. He gave the meat to the people, and they ate it. Then he went and followed Elijah as his helper.
As high as the sky is above the earth, : so great is his love for those who honour him. 
The city was perfectly square, as wide as it was long. The angel measured the city with his measuring rod: it was 2,400 kilometres long and was as wide and as high as it was long. 
You make my enemies run from me; : I destroy those who hate me. 
And this is what Christ himself promised to give us — eternal life. 
The disciples were very upset and began to ask him, one after the other, “Surely, Lord, you don't mean me?” 
What shall we say, then, of Abraham, the father of our race? What was his experience? 
up to a limit of 3.4 tonnes of silver, ten tonnes of wheat, 2,000 litres of wine, 2,000 litres of olive oil, and as much salt as necessary. 
and will throw them into the fiery furnace, where they will cry and grind their teeth. 
On the first day of the Harvest Festival, when you present the offering of new corn to the LORD, you are to gather for worship, and no work is to be done. 
All round them terror is waiting; : it follows them at every step. 
“Mortal man, the Israelites are of no use to me. They are like the waste metal — copper, tin, iron, and lead — left over after silver has been refined in a furnace. 
Hear my prayers and the prayers of your people Israel when they face this place and pray. In your home in heaven hear us and forgive us. 
The thorn bushes and the willows by the stream : give him shelter in their shade. 
They started to argue among themselves, “What shall we say? If we say, ‘From God,’ he will say, ‘Why, then, did you not believe John?’ 
“A virgin will become pregnant and have a son, and he will be called Immanuel” (which means, “God is with us”). 
He ordained Aaron by pouring some of the anointing oil on his head. 
The LORD will bring against you a nation from the ends of the earth, a nation whose language you do not know. They will swoop down on you like an eagle. 
After the burial, the prophet said to his sons, “When I die, bury me in this grave and lay my body next to his. 
“Separate the Levites from the rest of the people of Israel and purify them 
They claim they succeed by their own strength, : but their way of thinking I can't accept. 
In order to set us free from this present evil age, Christ gave himself for our sins, in obedience to the will of our God and Father. 
so that the LORD may now confirm you as his people and be your God, as he promised you and your ancestors, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. 
“Moab, you trusted in your strength and your wealth, : but now even you will be conquered; : your god Chemosh will go into exile, : along with his princes and priests. 
Before the grapes are gathered, when the blossoms have all fallen and the grapes are ripening, the enemy will destroy the Ethiopians as easily as a knife cuts branches from a vine. 
Early the next morning Abraham cut some wood for the sacrifice, loaded his donkey, and took Isaac and two servants with him. They started out for the place that God had told him about. 
The sun will not hurt you during the day, : nor the moon during the night. 
When this first census took place, Quirinius was the governor of Syria. 
So Moses gave the people of Israel the following command from the LORD. He said, “What the tribe of Manasseh says is right, 
She came closer, seized Holofernes by the hair of his head, and said, “O Lord, God of Israel, give me strength now.” 
‘Do you want to kill me, just as you killed that Egyptian yesterday?’ 
“Stand back from these people, and I will destroy them immediately.” 
Then you will know that I have given you this command, so that my covenant with the priests, the descendants of Levi, will not be broken. 
An intelligent person learns more from one rebuke than a fool learns from being beaten a hundred times. 
“I am not talking about all of you; I know those I have chosen. But the scripture must come true that says, ‘The man who shared my food turned against me.’  
But I will not take the whole kingdom away from Solomon, and I will keep him in power as long as he lives. This I will do for the sake of my servant David, whom I chose and who obeyed my laws and commands. 
Be always humble, gentle, and patient. Show your love by being tolerant with one another. 
Know what you are talking about before you speak, and give attention to your health before you get ill. 
You will be troubled and look with envy on all the blessings I will give to the other people of Israel, but no one in your family will ever again live to old age. 
A guard on duty in the watchtower at Jezreel saw Jehu and his men approaching. “I see some men riding up!” he called out. : Joram replied, “Send a rider to find out if they are friends or enemies.” 
They talk about me and say, : “God will not help him.” 
There will be war in Egypt : And great distress in Ethiopia. : Many in Egypt will be killed; : The country will be plundered : And left in ruins. 
When he learnt that Jesus was from the region ruled by Herod, he sent him to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem at that time. 
“Judah, your brothers will praise you. : You hold your enemies by the neck. : Your brothers will bow down before you. 
“Will you lead me to those raiders?” David asked him. : He answered, “I will if you promise me in God's name that you will not kill me or hand me over to my master.” 
The half-share of the soldiers was 337,500 sheep and goats, of which 675 were the tax for the LORD; 36,000 cattle for the soldiers, of which 72 were the tax for the LORD; 30,500 donkeys for the soldiers, of which 61 were the tax for the LORD; and 16,000 virgins for the soldiers, of which 32 were the tax for the LORD. 
God's wisdom, however, is shown to be true by all who accept it.” 
When God tears down, who can rebuild, : and who can free those God imprisons? 
Then the LORD told Joshua 
For the gospel reveals how God puts people right with himself: it is through faith from beginning to end. As the scripture says, “The person who is put right with God through faith shall live.” 
The king ordered the Levites to make a box for contributions and to place it at the temple gate. 
When they arrived at Salamis, they preached the word of God in the synagogues. They had John Mark with them to help in the work. 
At the king's command the decree was made public in the capital city of Susa, and runners carried the news to the provinces. The king and Haman sat down and had a drink while the city of Susa was being thrown into confusion.
But the temple Jesus was speaking about was his body. 
It was while the people were east of the Jordan in the territory of Moab that Moses began to explain God's laws and teachings. : He said, 
Could enough cattle and sheep be killed to satisfy them? Are all the fish in the sea enough for them?” 
I also saw that there were four wheels, all alike, one beside each creature. The wheels shone like precious stones, and each one had another wheel which intersected it at right angles. 
“Suppose two Israelites go to court to settle a dispute, and one is declared innocent and the other guilty. 
They stood there puzzled about this, when suddenly two men in bright shining clothes stood by them. 
You hypocrites! How right Isaiah was when he prophesied about you! 
But you are unfaithful, unworthy to be his people, : a sinful and deceitful nation. 
Someone will say, “Paul's letters are severe and strong, but when he is with us in person, he is weak, and his words are nothing!” 
What does Almighty God do to us? : How does he repay human deeds? 
“How terrible for you Pharisees! You love the reserved seats in the synagogues and to be greeted with respect in the market places.  
I depend on God alone; : I put my hope in him. 
On the south side of the portion given to the tribe of Gad, the boundary runs south-west from Tamar to the oasis of Kadesh, and then north-west along the Egyptian border to the Mediterranean Sea. 
“I am not looking for human praise.  
when I take you into exile in a land beyond Damascus,” says the LORD, whose name is Almighty God.
They left Egypt and went back home to their father Jacob in Canaan. 
Everything else that Jehoash did, including his bravery in the war against King Amaziah of Judah, is recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel. 
and by this time the boat was far out in the lake, tossed about by the waves, because the wind was blowing against it. 
“Tell them what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying: You eat meat with the blood still in it. You worship idols. You commit murder. What makes you think that the land belongs to you? 
Now, the important thing is that your way of life should be as the gospel of Christ requires, so that, whether or not I am able to go and see you, I will hear that you are standing firm with one common purpose and that with only one desire you are fighting together for the faith of the gospel. 
Save me by your power, O God; : set me free by your might! 
Jehoash captured Amaziah and took him to Jerusalem. There he tore down the city wall from Ephraim Gate to the Corner Gate, a distance of nearly 200 metres. 
Disaster will come upon you, : and none of your magic can stop it. : Ruin will come on you suddenly — : ruin you never dreamt of! 
But Jesus saw through their trick and said to them, 
as unknown, yet we are known by all; as though we were dead, but, as you see, we live on. Although punished, we are not killed; 
Why are you like someone taken by surprise, : like a soldier powerless to help? : Surely, LORD, you are with us! : We are your people; : do not abandon us.’ ” 
My strength will always be with him, : my power will make him strong. 
Every year the parents of Jesus went to Jerusalem for the Passover Festival. 
Everywhere in the land righteousness and justice will be done. 
You followed in your sister's footsteps, and so I will give you the same cup of punishment to drink.” 
The LORD will be a shepherd to the poor of his people and will let them live in safety. But he will send a terrible famine on you Philistines, and it will not leave any of you alive. 
then the war that you fear will overtake you, and the hunger you dread will follow you, and you will die there in Egypt. 
tremble and bow down to him; : or else his anger will be quickly aroused, : and you will suddenly die. : Happy are all who go to him for protection.
Then they are to sound one long note. As soon as you hear it, all the people are to give a loud shout, and the city walls will collapse. Then the whole army will go straight into the city.” 
Everyone ate and had enough. Then the disciples took up twelve baskets full of what was left over. 
Don't look too intently at a virgin, or you may find yourself forced to pay a bride price. 
But the heavens and the earth that now exist are being preserved by the same command of God, in order to be destroyed by fire. They are being kept for the day when godless people will be judged and destroyed. 
“And will the citizens of Keilah hand my men and me over to Saul?” David asked again. : “They will,” the LORD answered. 
There was nothing inside the Covenant Box except the two stone tablets which Moses had placed there at Mount Sinai, when the LORD made a covenant with the people of Israel as they were coming from Egypt. 
Parents, do not irritate your children, or they will become discouraged. 
Moses said to them, “No one is to keep any of it for tomorrow.” 
Listen to the glad shouts of victory in the tents of God's people: : “The LORD's mighty power has done it! 
In the presence of the LORD about 40,000 men ready for war crossed over to the plain near Jericho. 
Those who are pure in act and in thought, : who do not worship idols : or make false promises. 
Every good gift and every perfect present comes from heaven; it comes down from God, the Creator of the heavenly lights, who does not change or cause darkness by turning. 
My child, don't get involved in too many things. If you try to do too much, you will suffer for it. You won't be able to finish your work, and you won't be able to get away from it either. 
Then someone from Nineveh told the emperor that I was the one who had been burying his victims. As soon as I realized that the emperor knew all about me and that my life was in danger, I became frightened. So I ran away and hid. 
We took the livestock and plundered the towns. 
Fools! Did not God, who made the outside, also make the inside?  
“I will look for those that are lost, bring back those that wander off, bandage those that are hurt, and heal those that are sick; but those that are fat and strong I will destroy, because I am a shepherd who does what is right. 
Next, those under the banner of the division led by the tribe of Reuben would start out, company by company, with Elizur son of Shedeur in command. 
No one can stand a person who talks too long and will not give others a chance to speak. 
They crossed the river to escort the royal party across and to do whatever the king wanted. : As the king was getting ready to cross, Shimei threw himself down in front of him 
the priest shall pronounce him unclean, because of the dreaded skin disease on his head. 
Swarm after swarm of locusts settled on the crops; : what one swarm left, the next swarm devoured. 
The next morning you will feel as if you had been bitten by a poisonous snake. 
If you wander off the road to the right or the left, you will hear his voice behind you saying, “Here is the road. Follow it.” 
They will eat your livestock and your crops, and you will starve to death. They will not leave you any corn, wine, olive oil, cattle, or sheep; and you will die. 
yet there is for us only one God, the Father, who is the Creator of all things and for whom we live; and there is only one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom all things were created and through whom we live. 
On the way they said to one another, “Who will roll away the stone for us from the entrance to the tomb?” (It was a very large stone.) 
The LORD spoke to me. 
The wicked are doomed by their own violence; they refuse to do what is right. 
The armies of heaven followed him, riding on white horses and dressed in clean white linen. 
They flowed over the mountains and into the valleys, : to the place you had made for them. 
There, with the Israelites looking on, Joshua made on the stones a copy of the Law which Moses had written. 
Creation assumed all kinds of forms to show how you provide generously for all who pray to you.  
This trouble lasted for only a little while, as a warning. Then you gave them a healing symbol, the bronze snake, to remind them of what your Law requires. 
When they want fields, they seize them; when they want houses, they take them. No one's family or property is safe. 
If someone asks you why you are untying it, tell him that the Master  needs it.” 
Benjamin and Hasshub built the next section, which was in front of their houses; : Azariah, the son of Maaseiah and grandson of Ananiah, built the next section, which was in front of his house; 
Answer only if you know what to say, and if you don't know what to say, keep quiet. 
But Paul shouted at the top of his voice, “Don't harm yourself! We are all here!” 
Then the foremen went to the king and complained, “Why do you do this to us, Your Majesty? 
For it seems unreasonable to me to send a prisoner without clearly indicating the charges against him.”
Bezalel, the son of Uri and grandson of Hur, from the tribe of Judah, made everything that the LORD had commanded. 
Where is the LORD, who by his power did great things through Moses, dividing the waters of the sea and leading his people through the deep water, to win everlasting fame for himself?” : Led by the LORD, they were as sure-footed as wild horses, and never stumbled. 
Then I gave Baruch the following instructions: “I am no longer allowed to go into the Temple. 
I recognized them as the same creatures which I had seen beneath the God of Israel at the River Chebar. 
I will use Judah like a soldier's bow : and Israel like the arrows. : I will use the men of Zion like a sword, : to fight the men of Greece.” 
They will give their decision, and you are to do exactly as they tell you. 
Solomon also had 80,000 men in the hill country quarrying stone, with 70,000 men to carry it, 
Discipline your children and you can always be proud of them. They will never give you reason to be ashamed. 
I tell you this not as an order, but simply as a concession. 
and sent a message to Holofernes requesting permission to go out into the valley to pray. 
Listen, you kings! : Pay attention, you rulers! : I will sing, I will play music : to Israel's God, the LORD. 
But Jacob crossed his hands, and put his right-hand on the head of Ephraim, even though he was the younger, and his left-hand on the head of Manasseh, who was the elder. 
Then the disciples in the boat worshipped Jesus. “Truly you are the Son of God!” they exclaimed. 
We, your holy people, were driven out by our enemies for a little while: they trampled down your sanctuary.  
Defeat does not come to those who trust in you, : but to those who are quick to rebel against you. 
Jedaiah son of Harumaph built the next section, which was near his own house. : Hattush son of Hashabneiah built the next section. 
“I will show compassion to Jerusalem, : to all who live in her ruins. : Though her land is a desert, I will make it a garden, : like the garden I planted in Eden. : Joy and gladness will be there, : and songs of praise and thanks to me. 
“At that time the Kingdom of heaven will be like this. Once there were ten young women who took their oil lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom.  
“Listen to me: it is true that there were many widows in Israel during the time of Elijah, when there was no rain for 3.5 years and a severe famine spread throughout the whole land.  
This is what the Sovereign LORD is saying: “The city of murderers is doomed! It is like a corroded pot that is never cleaned. Piece after piece of meat is taken out, and not one is left. 
You will become wise, and your knowledge will give you pleasure. 
Every one of the commandments of Moses was read by Joshua to the whole gathering, which included women and children, as well as the foreigners living among them.
May they be like straw blown by the wind : as the angel of the LORD pursues them! 
For all of us must appear before Christ, to be judged by him. We will each receive what we deserve, according to everything we have done, good or bad, in our bodily life. 
So John said to all of them, “I baptize you with water, but someone is coming who is much greater than I am. I am not good enough even to untie his sandals. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. 
A record was kept of the heads of the Levite families and of the priestly families during the lifetimes of the following High Priests: Eliashib, Joiada, Jonathan, and Jaddua. This record was finished when Darius was emperor of Persia. 
Your will to live can sustain you when you are sick, but if you lose it, your last hope is gone. 
and to ask the priests and the prophets this question: “Should we continue to mourn because of the destruction of the Temple, by fasting in the fifth month as we have done for so many years now?” 
Then Jesus started off with him. So many people were going along with Jesus that they were crowding him from every side. 
So he ran ahead of the crowd and climbed a sycomore tree to see Jesus, who was going to pass that way. 
These corner frames are to be joined at the bottom and connected all the way to the top. The two frames that form the two corners are to be made in this way. 
The southern border started on the edge of Kiriath Jearim and went to the Springs of Nephtoah. 
A single spark can set a pile of coals ablaze, and a sinner is just waiting for a chance to use violence. 
“Do not muzzle an ox when you are using it to thresh corn. 
Sisera's mother looked out of the window; : she gazed from behind the lattice. : “Why is his chariot so late in coming?” she asked. : “Why are his horses so slow to return?” 
The LORD says, “The people of Moab have sinned again and again, and for this I will certainly punish them. They dishonoured the bones of the king of Edom by burning them to ashes. 
I have followed your instructions, LORD; : don't let me be put to shame. 
So they sent messengers and called together all five of the Philistine kings and asked them, “What shall we do with the Covenant Box of the God of Israel?” : “Take it over to Gath,” they answered; so they took it to Gath, another Philistine city. 
I want you to know that our brother Timothy has been let out of prison. If he comes soon enough, I will have him with me when I see you. 
“When you help the Hebrew women give birth,” he said to them, “kill the baby if it is a boy; but if it is a girl, let it live.” 
He is a human being who was himself formed from earth only a short while earlier, and after a little while, when he must return the soul that was lent to him, he will go back to the same earth. He is a human being, but he wastes his labour shaping a useless god out of the same clay that he uses to make pots. 
Then the owner sent another slave; the tenants beat him over the head and treated him shamefully.  
Go instead to Mesopotamia, to the home of your grandfather Bethuel, and marry one of the young women there, one of your uncle Laban's daughters. 
and you may leave them as an inheritance to your sons, whom they must serve as long as they live. But you must not treat any of your fellow-Israelites harshly. 
Everything else that King Ahab did, including an account of his palace decorated with ivory and all the cities he built, is recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel. 
“Each year bring to the house of the LORD the first corn that you harvest. : “Do not cook a young sheep or goat in its mother's milk.” 
So the prophecy of Isaiah applies to them: :   ‘This people will listen and listen, but not understand; :   they will look and look, but not see, 
If someone is honoured while he is poor, think how much he will be honoured if he becomes rich! If someone is despised while he is rich, think how much more he will be despised if he becomes poor!
Joab went to the king's house and said to him, “Today you have humiliated your men — the men who saved your life and the lives of your sons and daughters and of your wives and concubines. 
Then King Hezekiah and the prophet Isaiah son of Amoz prayed to God and cried out to him for help. 
A thousand may fall dead beside you, : 10,000 all round you, : but you will not be harmed. 
Then he left there and moved from place to place, going towards Bethel. He reached the place between Bethel and Ai where he had camped before 
Why do people commit crimes so readily? Because crime is not punished quickly enough. 
Honest people will lead a full, happy life. But if you are in a hurry to get rich, you are going to be punished. 
The first one came and said, ‘Sir, I have earned ten gold coins with the one you gave me.’  
and said, “Praise the LORD, who saved you from the king and the people of Egypt! Praise the LORD, who saved his people from slavery! 
He had with him a thousand men from the tribe of Benjamin. And Ziba, the servant of Saul's family, also came with his fifteen sons and twenty servants, and they arrived at the Jordan before the king. 
I thirst for you, the living God; : when can I go and worship in your presence? 
Samuel said, “As your sword has made many mothers childless, so now will your mother become childless.” And he cut Agag to pieces in front of the altar in Gilgal. 
Tell them to make a breastpiece, an ephod, a robe, an embroidered shirt, a turban, and a sash. They are to make these priestly garments for your brother Aaron and his sons, so that they can serve me as priests. 
But he would not listen to her; and since he was stronger than she was, he overpowered her and raped her. 
Then the Israelites sent messengers to Sihon, the Amorite king of Heshbon, and asked him for permission to go through his country to their own land. 
Dead flies can make a whole bottle of perfume stink, and a little stupidity can cancel out the greatest wisdom. 
and Jesus asked the teachers of the Law and the Pharisees, “Does our Law allow healing on the Sabbath or not?” 
The tribe of Naphtali did not drive out the people living in the cities of Beth Shemesh and Bethanath. The people of Naphtali lived with the local Canaanites, but forced them to work for them. 
They must thank him with sacrifices, : and with songs of joy must tell all that he has done. 
For when they were rejected, the human race was changed from God's enemies into his friends. What will it be, then, when they are accepted? It will be life for the dead! 
Let us thank the LORD, : who has not let our enemies destroy us. 
Then the Lord said to me, “Go and post a sentry, and tell him to report what he sees. 
“Have you noticed how Ahab has humbled himself before me? Since he has done this, I will not bring disaster on him during his lifetime; it will be during his son's lifetime that I will bring disaster on Ahab's family.”
And when he sent you from Kadesh Barnea with orders to go and take possession of the land that he was giving you, you rebelled against him; you did not trust him or obey him. 
Praise the LORD, the God of Israel! : Praise him now and for ever! : Then all the people said, “Amen”, and praised the LORD. 
Then he went back to the king and reported: “Your servants have taken the money that was in the Temple and have handed it over to the men in charge of the repairs.” 
Listen to this secret truth: we shall not all die, but when the last trumpet sounds, we shall all be changed in an instant, as quickly as the blinking of an eye. 
In the same way, you too must be glad and share your joy with me. 
Among the ladies of your court are daughters of kings, : and on the right of your throne stands the queen, : wearing ornaments of finest gold. 
“LORD, how long will I live? : When will I die? : Tell me how soon my life will end.” 
When Saul finished his ecstatic dancing and shouting, he went to the altar on the hill. 
Her requirements are a burden heavier than they are willing to bear, and they quickly lay them aside. 
The Philistine started walking towards David, with his shield-bearer walking in front of him. He kept coming closer, 
So they are to have a special area next to the area belonging to the Levites, and it will be the holiest of all. 
You are our witnesses, and so is God, that our conduct towards you who believe was pure, right, and without fault. 
David gave the order, and his soldiers killed Rechab and Baanah and cut off their hands and feet, which they hung up near the pool in Hebron. They took Ishbosheth's head and buried it in Abner's tomb there at Hebron.
“Give the boy to me,” Elijah said. He took the boy from her arms, carried him upstairs to the room where he was staying, and laid him on the bed. 
He made this very clear to them. So Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him. 
that God is kind and merciful to his own people; he protects those whom he has chosen. 
The argument became so violent that the commander was afraid that Paul would be torn to pieces. So he ordered his soldiers to go down into the group, get Paul away from them, and take him into the fort. 
The poor and the helpless have fled to you : and have been safe in times of trouble. : You give them shelter from storms : and shade from the burning heat. : Cruel enemies attack like a winter storm, 
Kinah, Dimonah, Adadah, 
King Ahaz took apart the bronze carts used in the Temple and removed the basins that were on them; he also took the bronze tank from the backs of the twelve bronze bulls, and placed it on a stone foundation. 
For all the nations have drunk her wine — the strong wine of her immoral lust. The kings of the earth practised sexual immorality with her, and the merchants of the world grew rich from her unrestrained lust.” 
I had not yet been put in prison and was still moving about freely among the people. 
But the kingdoms of Geshur and Aram conquered sixty towns there, including the villages of Jair and Kenath, and the towns near by. All the people who lived there were descendants of Machir, the father of Gilead. 
When parents give their blessing, they give strength to their children's homes, but when they curse their children, they destroy the very foundations. 
The LORD is a refuge for the oppressed, : a place of safety in times of trouble. 
If someone touches a person who has been killed or has died a natural death out of doors or if someone touches a human bone or a grave, he becomes unclean for seven days. 
The seven thin cows which came up later and the seven thin ears of corn scorched by the desert wind are seven years of famine. 
What she did was to pour this perfume on my body to get me ready for burial.  
On the first day of the first month of the 27th year of our exile, the LORD spoke to me. 
“If you see a fellow-Israelite's cow or sheep running loose, do not ignore it; take it back to him. 
“At that time the Kingdom of heaven will be like this. Once there was a man who was about to go on a journey; he called his servants and put them in charge of his property.  
Keep your minds fixed on things there, not on things here on earth. 
He had been chosen by God before the creation of the world and was revealed in these last days for your sake. 
“So I made a box of acacia wood and cut two stone tablets like the first ones and took them up the mountain. 
They prepared the carnelians and mounted them in gold settings; they were skilfully engraved with the names of the twelve sons of Jacob. 
Balak said to him, “Why didn't you come when I sent for you the first time? Did you think I wasn't able to reward you enough?” 
Even if your prayer of thanks to God is quite good, other people are not helped at all. 
He rejected the LORD, the God of his ancestors, and disobeyed the LORD's commands. 
On the east side, those under the banner of the division of Judah shall camp in their groups, under their leaders, as follows: :  :  :  : Judah : Nahshon son of Amminadab : 74,600 : Issachar : Nethanel son of Zuar : 54,400 : Zebulun : Eliab son of Helon : 57,400 : Total: : 186,400 : The division of Judah shall march first. 
The city gates will mourn and cry, and the city itself will be like a woman sitting on the ground, stripped naked.
The corpses will be food for the birds and wild animals, and there will be no one to scare them off. 
Let's drink the most expensive wines and use the finest perfumes. Let's not miss a single flower in the springtime! 
If I send them home without feeding them, they will faint as they go, because some of them have come a long way.” 
The LORD is a God who is eager to save, : so he exalted his laws and teachings, : and he wanted his people to honour them. 
So Jehoram set out with all his chariots for Zair, where the Edomite army surrounded them. During the night he and his chariot commanders managed to break out and escape, and his soldiers scattered to their homes. 
He shall bring them to the priest, who will first offer the bird for the sin offering. He will break its neck without pulling off its head 
I have complete confidence in the gospel; it is God's power to save all who believe, first the Jews and also the Gentiles. 
“I, the Sovereign LORD, say: it is true that people say that the land eats people, and that it robs the nation of its children. 
When David was very old, he made his son Solomon king of Israel. 
“Mourn, people of Jerusalem; : cut off your hair and throw it away. : Sing a funeral song on the hilltops, : because I, the LORD, am angry, : and have rejected my people. 
For this reason Jesus also died outside the city, in order to purify the people from sin with his own blood. 
But strengthen the determination of your helper, Joshua son of Nun. He will lead Israel to occupy the land.’ 
They also lived in the cities of Jeshua, Moladah, Bethpelet, 
But who will be able to endure the day when he comes? Who will be able to survive when he appears? He will be like strong soap, like a fire that refines metal. 
But John reprimanded Herod, the governor, because he had married Herodias, his brother's wife, and had done many other evil things. 
You mountains, you everlasting foundations of the earth, listen to the LORD's case! The LORD has a case against his people. He is going to bring an accusation against Israel. 
Leave the party at the right time and never be the last to go. Don't linger at the door; just go straight home. 
God said to Abraham, “You also must agree to keep the covenant with me, both you and your descendants in future generations. 
Poor and humble people will once again find the happiness which the LORD, the holy God of Israel, gives. 
Then the priests and the prophets said to the leaders and to the people, “This man deserves to be sentenced to death because he has spoken against our city. You heard him with your own ears.” 
Make priestly garments for your brother Aaron, to provide him with dignity and beauty. 
Remember that death is coming for you some day, and you haven't been told when that will be. 
At three o'clock Jesus cried out with a loud shout, “Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?” which means, “My God, my God, why did you abandon me?” 
He returned to the city of Jezreel to recover from his wounds, and Ahaziah went there to visit him. 
She was a very beautiful young woman and still a virgin. She went down to the well, filled her jar, and came back. 
David did what God had commanded, and so he drove the Philistines back from Gibeon all the way to Gezer. 
He must make the payments he has failed to hand over and must pay an additional twenty per cent. He shall give it to the priest, and the priest shall offer the animal as a sacrifice for the man's sin, and he will be forgiven. 
He said to David, “What's that stick for? Do you think I'm a dog?” And he called down curses from his god on David. 
The LORD is going to devastate the earth and leave it desolate. He will twist the earth's surface and scatter its people. 
And now, people of Judah, say goodbye to the town of Moresheth Gath. The kings of Israel will get no help from the town of Achzib. 
After that I will punish Babylonia and its king for their sin. I will destroy that country and leave it in ruins for ever. 
They make loans without charging interest : and cannot be bribed to testify against the innocent. : Whoever does these things will always be secure.
Through faith they fought whole countries and won. They did what was right and received what God had promised. They shut the mouths of lions, 
The men who were taking Paul went with him as far as Athens and then returned to Berea with instructions from Paul that Silas and Timothy should join him as soon as possible. 
You will give us prosperity, LORD; : everything that we achieve : is the result of what you do. 
“I am Wisdom, I am better than jewels; : nothing you want can compare with me. 
It was now two days before the Festival of Passover and Unleavened Bread. The chief priests and the teachers of the Law were looking for a way to arrest Jesus secretly and put him to death. 
I have put a shepherd in charge of my flock, but he does not help the sheep that are threatened by destruction; nor does he look for the lost, or heal those that are hurt, or feed the healthy. Instead, he eats the meat of the fattest sheep and tears off their hoofs. 
they reported back to Joshua: “There is no need for everyone to attack Ai. Send only about two or three thousand men. Don't send the whole army up there to fight; it is not a large city.” 
It was faith that made Jacob bless each of the sons of Joseph just before he died. He leaned on the top of his walking stick and worshipped God. 
“When that time comes, the LORD will whistle as a signal for the Egyptians to come like flies from the farthest branches of the Nile, and for the Assyrians to come from their land like bees. 
He looked around at them all; then he said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” He did so, and his hand became well again. 
They may live in any of your towns that they choose, and you are not to treat them harshly. 
The wicked see this and are angry; : they glare in hate and disappear; : their hopes are gone for ever.
The LORD has revealed himself by his righteous judgements, : and the wicked are trapped by their own deeds. 
Aphek, Lasharon, 
Human beings are all like a puff of breath; : great and small alike are worthless. : Put them on the scales, and they weigh nothing; : they are lighter than a mere breath. 
You shared the sufferings of prisoners, and when all your belongings were seized, you endured your loss gladly, because you knew that you still possessed something much better, which would last for ever. 
For no prophetic message ever came just from human will, but people were under the control of the Holy Spirit as they spoke the message that came from God.
They will all see that I, the LORD, set it on fire and that no one can put it out.” 
“Do not offer bread made with yeast when you sacrifice an animal to me. Do not keep until the following morning any part of the animal killed at the Passover Festival. 
And he has given the Son the right to judge, because he is the Son of Man.  
The taste of honey is on your lips, my darling; : your tongue is milk and honey for me. : Your clothing has all the fragrance of Lebanon. 
Ananias answered, “Lord, many people have told me about this man and about all the terrible things he has done to your people in Jerusalem. 
“Where is he?” he asked his daughters. “Why did you leave the man out there? Go and invite him to eat with us.” 
The five Amorite kings, however, had escaped and were hiding in the cave at Makkedah. 
The people of Israel are as stubborn as mules. How can I feed them like lambs in a meadow? 
Jesus rolled up the scroll, gave it back to the attendant, and sat down. All the people in the synagogue had their eyes fixed on him, 
Abraham spoke again: “Please forgive my boldness in continuing to speak to you, Lord. I am only a man and have no right to say anything. 
When they arrived at the edge of the town, Samuel said to Saul, “Tell the servant to go on ahead of us.” The servant left, and Samuel continued, “Stay here a minute, and I will tell you what God has said.”
I have as much authority in this house as he has, and he has not kept back anything from me except you. How then could I do such an immoral thing and sin against God?” 
Meanwhile the 600 soldiers from Dan, ready for battle, were standing at the gate. 
And so I present you with my learning; I hold it high, so that its light can be seen everywhere, like that of the rising sun. 
I wish you would hide me in the world of the dead; : let me be hidden until your anger is over, : and then set a time to remember me. 
Love is patient and kind; it is not jealous or conceited or proud; 
But how can it rest, : when I have given it work to do? : I have commanded it to attack Ashkelon : and the people who live on the coast.”
Stop it, my sons! This is an awful thing the people of the LORD are talking about! 
Surely you remember, our brothers and sisters, how we worked and toiled! We worked day and night so that we would not be any trouble to you as we preached to you the Good News from God. 
Then I saw heaven open, and there was a white horse. Its rider is called Faithful and True; it is with justice that he judges and fights his battles. 
I will make the hill country of Edom a waste and kill everyone who travels through it. 
If you did this, you would defile the land where you are living. Murder defiles the land, and except by the death of the murderer there is no way to perform the ritual of purification for the land where someone has been murdered. 
Then we will agree to intermarriage. We will settle among you and become one people with you. 
Then they all went to the temple of Baal and tore it down. They smashed the altars and idols there and killed Mattan, the priest of Baal, in front of the altars. 
To the eternal King, immortal and invisible, the only God — to him be honour and glory for ever and ever! Amen. 
When someone evil stops sinning and does what is right and good, he saves his life. 
On the Sabbath we went out of the city to the riverside, where we thought there would be a place where Jews gathered for prayer. We sat down and talked to the women who gathered there. 
Instead, you are to go to the lost sheep of the people of Israel.  
holiness will be his invincible shield. 
“Go out and stand before me on top of the mountain,” the LORD said to him. Then the LORD passed by and sent a furious wind that split the hills and shattered the rocks — but the LORD was not in the wind. The wind stopped blowing, and then there was an earthquake — but the LORD was not in the earthquake. 
Pray, then, that I may speak, as I should, in such a way as to make it clear. 
the LORD had said, “The city of Jerusalem laughs at you, Sennacherib, and despises you. 
So Jephthah went with the leaders of Gilead, and the people made him their ruler and leader. Jephthah stated his terms at Mizpah in the presence of the LORD. 
And Joshua son of Nun and Caleb son of Jephunneh, two of the spies, tore their clothes in sorrow 
the 1,365 pieces of silver 
However, if you tell anyone what we have been doing, then we will not have to keep our promise which you have made us give you.” 
With a cloud you led them in daytime, : and at night you lighted their way with fire. 
Then I brought you to the land of the Amorites, who lived on the east side of the Jordan. They fought you, but I gave you victory over them. You took their land, and I destroyed them as you advanced. 
Wise people live in wealth and luxury, but stupid people spend their money as fast as they get it. 
followed the man and the woman into the tent, and drove the spear through both of them. In this way the epidemic that was destroying Israel was stopped, 
Aaron and Moses were the ones to whom the LORD said, “Lead the tribes of Israel out of Egypt.” 
Jesus healed many who were sick with all kinds of diseases and drove out many demons. He would not let the demons say anything, because they knew who he was. 
So how can you order me to go and tell the king that you are here? He will kill me!” 
May there be peace inside your walls : and safety in your palaces.” 
If you obey the commands of the LORD your God, which I give you today, if you love him, obey him, and keep all his laws, then you will prosper and become a nation of many people. The LORD your God will bless you in the land that you are about to occupy. 
the gold altar; the anointing oil; the sweet-smelling incense; the curtain for the entrance of the Tent; 
Never boast about tomorrow. You don't know what will happen between now and then. 
But the LORD says, “Israel and Judah, what am I going to do with you? Your love for me disappears as quickly as morning mist; it is like dew, that vanishes early in the day. 
May the nations be glad and sing for joy, : because you judge the peoples with justice : and guide every nation on earth. 
the water stopped flowing and piled up, far upstream at Adam, the city beside Zarethan. The flow downstream to the Dead Sea was completely cut off, and the people were able to cross over near Jericho. 
“Bezalel, Oholiab, and all the other workers to whom the LORD has given skill and understanding, who know how to make everything needed to build the sacred Tent, are to make everything just as the LORD has commanded.” 
But you and your families may eat the breast and the hind leg that are presented as the special gift and the special contribution to the LORD for the priests. You may eat them in any ritually clean place. These offerings have been given to you and your children as the part that belongs to you from the fellowship offerings of the people of Israel. 
All the Jews and Gentiles who lived in Ephesus heard about this; they were all filled with fear, and the name of the Lord Jesus was given greater honour. 
and Oholibamah bore Jeush, Jalam, and Korah. All these sons were born to Esau in the land of Canaan. 
But if the sore is white and does not appear to be deeper than the skin round it and the hairs have not turned white, the priest shall isolate the person for seven days. 
“Let us be allies, as our fathers were. This silver and gold is a present for you. Now break your alliance with King Baasha of Israel, so that he will have to pull his troops out of my territory.” 
How glorious you are, O God! : How majestic, as you return from the mountains : where you defeated your foes. 
The next day, as they were on their way and coming near Joppa, Peter went up on the roof of the house about noon in order to pray. 
No human being or animal will walk through it. For forty years nothing will live there. 
Madon, Hazor, 
The Pharisees asked him, “Why, then, did Moses give the law for a man to hand his wife a divorce notice and send her away?” 
They put him in chains, led him off, and handed him over to Pilate, the Roman governor. 
and so he is pulled in two directions. An unmarried woman or a virgin concerns herself with the Lord's work, because she wants to be dedicated both in body and spirit; but a married woman concerns herself with worldly matters, because she wants to please her husband. 
Wisdom moves more easily than motion itself; she is so pure that she penetrates everything. 
Don't forget how I, your servant, am insulted, : how I endure all the curses of the heathen. 
My quarrel is not with mortals; : I have good reason to be impatient. 
He was made a priest, not by human rules and regulations, but through the power of a life which has no end. 
Everyone in the land will help to bury them, and they will be honoured for this on the day of my victory. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken. 
“If you obey the LORD your God and faithfully keep all his commands that I am giving you today, he will make you greater than any other nation on earth. 
They answered, “You were born and brought up in sin — and you are trying to teach us?” And they expelled him from the synagogue. 
I am like a wild bird in the desert, : like an owl in abandoned ruins. 
It makes as much sense as eating ashes. His foolish ideas have so misled him that he is beyond help. He won't admit to himself that the idol he holds in his hand is not a god at all. 
But they said, “Get out of our way, you foreigner! Who are you to tell us what to do? Out of our way, or we will treat you worse than them.” They pushed Lot back and moved up to break down the door. 
So I handed her over to her Assyrian lovers whom she wanted so much. 
Generosity will sometimes do you no good, but at other times it will repay you double. 
God puts people right through their faith in Jesus Christ. God does this to all who believe in Christ, because there is no difference at all
calling loudly at the city gates and wherever people come together
We give thanks to you, O God, we give thanks to you! : We proclaim how great you are : and tell of the wonderful things you have done. 
Then I heard another voice from heaven, saying: : “Come out, my people! Come out from her! : You must not take part in her sins; : you must not share in her punishment! 
They wrote what we have been told by those who saw these things from the beginning and who proclaimed the message. 
In the morning, he went out to the gate and said to the people who were there, “I was the one who plotted against King Joram and killed him; you are not responsible for that. But who killed all these? 
So then, as the body without the spirit is dead, so also faith without actions is dead.
Out of the fullness of his grace he has blessed us all, giving us one blessing after another. 
Everyone who used to walk by your fields saw how overgrown and wild they were, but I will let you farm them again. 
(There were about 5,000 men there.) : Jesus said to his disciples, “Make the people sit down in groups of about fifty each.” 
You do yourself a favour when you are kind. If you are cruel, you only hurt yourself. 
At one time you were not God's people, but now you are his people; at one time you did not know God's mercy, but now you have received his mercy. 
And he said to Jesus, “Remember me, Jesus, when you come as King!” 
Then the sixth angel blew his trumpet. I heard a voice coming from the four corners of the gold altar standing before God. 
Their next camp was in the desert of Sin. 
They celebrated the Festival of Shelters according to the regulations; each day they offered the sacrifices required for that day; 
I ask you with all my heart : to have mercy on me, as you have promised! 
They turned round and started off, with their children, their livestock, and their belongings going ahead. 
and said to them, “We wish that the LORD had killed us in Egypt. There we could at least sit down and eat meat and as much other food as we wanted. But you have brought us out into this desert to starve us all to death.” 
You give me strength to attack my enemies : and power to overcome their defences. 
Don't indulge in luxurious living; the expense of it will ruin you. 
They were bitten so that they would remember your commands, but they were quickly rescued, in order to keep them from forgetting you completely and depriving themselves of your kindness. 
‘Who are you, Lord?’ I asked. And the Lord answered, ‘I am Jesus, whom you persecute.  
I said, : “Listen to the LORD, you women, : and pay attention to his words. : Teach your daughters how to mourn, : and your friends how to sing a funeral song. 
I will praise God with a song; : I will proclaim his greatness by giving him thanks. 
and it was done. So God made a dome, and it separated the water under it from the water above it. 
Abraham named him Isaac, 
The people of Israel are like a plant whose roots have dried up and which bears no fruit. They will have no children, but even if they did, I would kill the children so dear to them.” 
Jesus again gave a loud cry and breathed his last. 
He had nine other sons: Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet, 
After Solomon had finished praying to the LORD, he stood up in front of the altar, where he had been kneeling with uplifted hands. 
Don't plan anything that will hurt your neighbours; they live beside you, trusting you. 
And now you will have to endure your disgrace. Your sins are so much worse than those of your sisters that they look innocent beside you. Now blush and bear your shame, because you make your sisters look pure.” 
You cannot drink from the Lord's cup and also from the cup of demons; you cannot eat at the Lord's table and also at the table of demons. 
I told her that for a long time she would have to wait for me without being a prostitute or committing adultery; and during this time I would wait for her. 
On the ninth day of the fourth month of that same year, when the famine was so bad that the people had nothing left to eat, 
When justice is perverted in court, he knows. 
Do not charge them any interest, but obey God and let your fellow-Israelites live near you. 
Do not let seeds be sown in that country or let a harvest be gathered. Every foreigner living there will be afraid of the attacking army and will go back home.” 
Point the way to Zion! : Run for safety! Don't delay! : The LORD is bringing disaster : and great destruction from the north. 
Jarmuth, Lachish, 
Listen to the groans of the prisoners, : and by your great power free those who are condemned to die. 
“One witness is not enough to convict a man of a crime; at least two witnesses are necessary to prove that a man is guilty. 
When you see the children that I will give you, then you will acknowledge that I am the holy God of Israel. You will honour me and stand in awe of me. 
Asher had a daughter named Serah. 
Be careful about the kind of person you invite into your home, because clever people can fool you in many ways. 
Jabin had 900 iron chariots, and he ruled the people of Israel with cruelty and violence for twenty years. Then the people of Israel cried out to the LORD for help. 
Bad as you are, you know how to give good things to your children. How much more, then, will the Father in heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!” 
Jesus saw his mother and the disciple he loved standing there; so he said to his mother, “He is your son.” 
All this did happen to King Nebuchadnezzar. 
Everything I fear and dread comes true. 
A voice said to him, “Get up, Peter; kill and eat!” 
Then Jesus and his disciples went on to another village. 
This made Asa so angry with the prophet that he had him put in chains. It was at this same time that Asa began treating some of the people cruelly. 
Do not punish us for the sins of our ancestors. : Have mercy on us now; : we have lost all hope. 
listen to his prayer. In heaven, where you live, hear him and do what he asks you to do, so that all the peoples of the world may know you and obey you, as your people Israel do. Then they will know that this Temple I have built is the place where you are to be worshipped. 
all the while planning evil in their perverted minds, stirring up trouble everywhere. 
“Honour the LORD your God by celebrating Passover in the month of Abib; it was on a night in that month that he rescued you from Egypt. 
This made the priest very happy, so he took the sacred objects and went along with them. 
Men will hand over their own brothers to be put to death, and fathers will do the same to their children. Children will turn against their parents and have them put to death.  
Why do you unfaithful people boast? Your strength is failing. Why do you trust in your power and say that no one would dare attack you? 
There were Ashdod and Gaza, with their towns and villages, reaching to the stream on the border of Egypt and the coast of the Mediterranean Sea. 
If they want to find out about something, they should ask their husbands at home. It is a disgraceful thing for a woman to speak in church. 
“Go down to the potter's house, where I will give you my message.” 
Why can't we be content to live on what the Lord has given us?” 
In this way the name of our Lord Jesus will receive glory from you, and you from him, by the grace of our God and of the Lord Jesus Christ.
God's Spirit made me and gave me life. 
“Take one of the rams and tell Aaron and his sons to put their hands on its head. 
and one kilogramme with each lamb. 
He makes the mountains of Lebanon jump like calves : and makes Mount Hermon leap like a young bull. 
Zadok, Shallum, 
The LORD will fight for you, and there is no need for you to do anything.” 
He made the poles of acacia wood and covered them with gold. 
When the believers heard it, they all joined together in prayer to God: “Master and Creator of heaven, earth, and sea, and all that is in them! 
But now you have rejected us and let us be defeated; : you no longer march out with our armies. 
On Judgement Day the Queen of Sheba will stand up and accuse you, because she travelled all the way from her country to listen to King Solomon's wise teaching; and I assure you that there is something here greater than Solomon! 
Then Esther spoke to the king again, throwing herself at his feet and crying. She begged him to do something to stop the evil plot that Haman, the descendant of Agag, had made against the Jews. 
So we will not be afraid, even if the earth is shaken : and mountains fall into the ocean depths; 
Be sure that the book of the Law is always read in your worship. Study it day and night, and make sure that you obey everything written in it. Then you will be prosperous and successful. 
I hereby command you to help them rebuild it. Their expenses are to be paid promptly out of the royal funds received from taxes in West Euphrates, so that the work is not interrupted. 
They gave him a piece of cooked fish, 
and saw two angels there dressed in white, sitting where the body of Jesus had been, one at the head and the other at the feet. 
Jesus went into the Temple and drove out all those who were buying and selling there. He overturned the tables of the moneychangers and the stools of those who sold pigeons, 
The rulers of the nations assemble : with the people of the God of Abraham. : More powerful than all armies is he; : he rules supreme.
so that evil and falsehood could not corrupt his mind and soul. 
But Abraham said, ‘If they will not listen to Moses and the prophets, they will not be convinced even if someone were to rise from death.’ ”
Do you already have everything you need? Are you already rich? Have you become kings, even though we are not? Well, I wish you really were kings, so that we could be kings together with you. 
and then lived another 800 years. He had other children 
“Condemn them for all their wickedness; : Punish them as you punished me for my sins. : I groan in misery, and I am sick at heart.”
They arrested Jesus and took him away into the house of the High Priest; and Peter followed at a distance. 
Jesus and his disciples went away to Lake Galilee, and a large crowd followed him. They had come from Galilee, from Judea, 
Then Moses said goodbye to Jethro, and Jethro went back home.
God did not spare the ancient world, but brought the flood on the world of godless people; the only ones he saved were Noah, who preached righteousness, and seven other people. 
The land will produce its crops, and you will have all you want to eat and will live in safety. 
and the descendants of Ulla were Arah, Hanniel, and Rizia. 
Keep away from such a woman! Don't even go near her door! 
Listen to my cry for help, : for I am sunk in despair. : Save me from my enemies; : they are too strong for me. 
as joyful as people at a festival.” : The LORD says, : “I have ended the threat of doom : and taken away your disgrace. 
and their people will say, : “Let us go up the hill of the LORD, : to the Temple of Israel's God. : He will teach us what he wants us to do; : we will walk in the paths he has chosen. : For the LORD's teaching comes from Jerusalem; : from Zion he speaks to his people.” 
On Zion, God's sacred hill, : there will be nothing harmful or evil. : The land will be as full of knowledge of the LORD : as the seas are full of water. 
Keep your camp ritually clean, because the LORD your God is with you in your camp to protect you and to give you victory over your enemies. Do not do anything indecent that would cause the LORD to turn his back on you. 
Our glittering gold has grown dull; : the stones of the Temple lie scattered in the streets. 
“By your lies you discourage good people, whom I do not wish to hurt. You prevent evil people from giving up evil and saving their lives. 
Sew five of them together in one set, and the other six in another set. Fold the sixth piece double over the front of the Tent. 
The fire must always be kept burning on the altar and never allowed to go out. 
The LORD commanded Moses 
The LORD then passed in front of him and called out, “I, the LORD, am a God who is full of compassion and pity, who is not easily angered and who shows great love and faithfulness. 
They will sing about what you have done : and about your great glory. 
and we cried to the LORD for help. He heard our cry and sent an angel, who led us out of Egypt. Now we are at Kadesh, a town at the border of your territory. 
A drunken woman is an infuriating sight; she can't conceal her shameless behaviour. 
When Jesus left that place, the teachers of the Law and the Pharisees began to criticize him bitterly and ask him questions about many things, 
He made plans to protect his people from attack and fortified the city so that it could withstand a siege. 
Men in chariots and men on horseback also went with him; it was a huge group. 
As you can find out for yourself, it was no more than twelve days ago that I went to Jerusalem to worship. 
The news of what the Israelites were saying reached King David. So he sent the priests Zadok and Abiathar to ask the leaders of Judah, “Why should you be the last to help bring the king back to his palace? 
Happy is the one whom the LORD does not accuse of doing wrong : and who is free from all deceit. 
He put the washbasin between the Tent and the altar and filled it with water. 
I am surrounded by many troubles — : too many to count! : My sins have caught up with me, : and I can no longer see; : they are more than the hairs of my head, : and I have lost my courage. 
His closest advisers will ruin him. Many of his soldiers will be killed, and his army will be wiped out. 
But if you do not listen to the LORD but disobey his commands, he will be against you and your king.  
If the Son sets you free, then you will be really free.  
Many of them believed; and many Greek women of high social standing and many Greek men also believed. 
Everyone is there, the famous and the unknown, : and slaves at last are free. 
I predicted what would happen, : and then I came to your aid. : No foreign god has ever done this; : you are my witnesses. 
They tied it to the front of the turban with a blue cord, just as the LORD had commanded Moses. 
Philip answered, “For everyone to have even a little, it would take more than 200 silver coins to buy enough bread.” 
In answer to the king's question, she confirmed Gehazi's story, and so the king called an official and told him to give back to her everything that was hers, including the value of all the crops that her fields had produced during the seven years she had been away. 
And on that cross Christ freed himself from the power of the spiritual rulers and authorities; he made a public spectacle of them by leading them as captives in his victory procession. 
When Zimri saw that the city had fallen, he went into the palace's inner fortress, set the palace on fire, and died in the flames. 
Confess all your sins and determine that in the future you will live a righteous life. 
Kill the bull there in my holy presence at the entrance of the Tent. 
Wake up, North Wind. : South Wind, blow on my garden; : fill the air with fragrance. : Let my lover come to his garden : and eat the best of its fruits.
My salvation and honour depend on God; : he is my strong protector; : he is my shelter. 
Laban also said, “May the LORD keep an eye on us while we are separated from each other.” So the place was also named Mizpah.  
They are drenched by the rain that falls on the mountains, : and they huddle beside the rocks for shelter. 
No one can tell God what to do : or accuse him of doing evil. 
I said, “I have sinned against you, LORD; : be merciful to me and heal me.” 
I am already eighty years old, and nothing gives me pleasure any more. I can't taste what I eat and drink, and I can't hear the voices of singers. I would only be a burden to Your Majesty. 
When King Baasha heard what had happened, he stopped fortifying Ramah and went to Tirzah. 
“You must have many children, so that your descendants will live all over the earth.” 
Saul called his forces together and inspected them at Telem: there were 200,000 soldiers from Israel and 10,000 from Judah. 
A potter works the soft clay and carefully shapes each object for our use. Some things he makes are put to good use, and some are not, but he makes them all from the same clay, and shapes them in the same manner. The potter himself decides which objects shall be used for what purposes. 
Ahaz, Hezekiah, Manasseh, 
The LORD says, “Sound the alarm! Enemies are swooping down on my land like eagles! My people have broken the covenant I made with them and have rebelled against my teaching. 
There in the land, on my holy mountain, the high mountain of Israel, all you people of Israel will worship me. I will be pleased with you and will expect you to bring me your sacrifices, your best offerings, and your holy gifts. 
My cows and goats gave plenty of milk, : and my olive trees grew in the rockiest soil. 
Tell them to throw him in prison and to put him on bread and water until I return safely.” 
He will have compassion on us if we accept his guidance and are eager for him to show us where we are wrong. 
Zerubbabel, Joshua, and the heads of the clans said to them, “We don't need your help to build a temple for the LORD our God. We will build it ourselves, just as Cyrus, emperor of Persia, commanded us.” 
Tamar went home, took off her veil, and put her widow's clothes back on. 
so that what the prophet Isaiah had said might come true: : “Lord, who believed the message we told? : To whom did the Lord reveal his power?” 
“Look at me!” she cries to everyone who passes by. : “No one has ever had pain like mine, : Pain that the LORD brought on me in the time of his anger. 
He prayed to the Lord, the Most High, and was given the strength to kill that famous soldier, so that the nations would have respect for the power of his people. 
Finally, however, Hezekiah and the people of Jerusalem humbled themselves, and so the LORD did not punish the people until after Hezekiah's death. 
Then the Tent would be taken down, and the clans of Gershon and Merari, who carried it, would start out. 
Then I saw a beast coming up out of the sea. It had ten horns and seven heads; on each of its horns there was a crown, and on each of its heads there was a name that was insulting to God. 
but people like that are setting a trap for themselves, a trap in which they will die. 
Continue to love those who know you : and to do good to those who are righteous. 
“Did you notice my servant Job?” the LORD asked. “There is no one on earth as faithful and good as he is. He worships me and is careful not to do anything evil. You persuaded me to let you attack him for no reason at all, but Job is still as faithful as ever.” 
Moses said to the LORD, “Here I am leading 600,000 people, and you say that you will give them enough meat for a month? 
When Ahab saw him, he said, “So there you are — the worst troublemaker in Israel!” 
And so, keeping quiet in such evil times is the clever thing to do! 
With a loud cry Jesus died. 
Jesus told them this parable, but they did not understand what he meant. 
Then Satan entered Judas, called Iscariot, who was one of the twelve disciples. 
I have heard words like that before; : the comfort you give is only torment. 
The king answered, “I'm going to ask you a question, and you must tell me the whole truth.” : “Ask me anything, Your Majesty,” she answered. 
Honest people will treat you fairly; the wicked only want to deceive you. 
When your two sons Hophni and Phinehas both die on the same day, this will show you that everything I have said will come true. 
Why should we go there? We are afraid. The men we sent tell us that the people there are stronger and taller than we are, and that they live in cities with walls that reach the sky. They saw giants there!’ 
which formed the western border. : Within these borders lived the people of the families of Judah. 
Again Jesus asked them, “Who is it you are looking for?” : “Jesus of Nazareth,” they said. 
Give to everyone who asks you for something, and when someone takes what is yours, do not ask for it back.  
Then Saul said, “Decide between my son Jonathan and me.” And Jonathan was indicated. 
Gershon had two sons: Libni and Shimei, and they had many descendants. 
Jesus answered, “His blindness has nothing to do with his sins or his parents' sins. He is blind so that God's power might be seen at work in him.  
Balaam answered, “Because you have made a fool of me! If I had a sword, I would kill you.” 
Jesus sat down, called the twelve disciples, and said to them, “Whoever wants to be first must place himself last of all and be the servant of all.”  
“Remember this, you sinners; : consider what I have done. 
“You were going to tear down the Temple and build it up again in three days! Save yourself if you are God's Son! Come on down from the cross!” 
Judas and Silas, who were themselves prophets, spoke a long time with them, giving them courage and strength. 
They claim that they know God, but their actions deny it. They are hateful and disobedient, not fit to do anything good.
But one breath from you, LORD, and the Egyptians were drowned; : they sank like lead in the terrible water. 
Turn to the LORD, all you humble people of the land, who obey his commands. Do what is right, and humble yourselves before the LORD. Perhaps you will escape punishment on the day when the LORD shows his anger. 
Pray for the peace of Jerusalem: : “May those who love you prosper. 
But Moses said to the LORD, “You brought these people out of Egypt by your power. When the Egyptians hear what you have done to your people, 
Once more David consulted God, who answered, “Don't attack them from here, but go round and get ready to attack them from the other side, near the balsam trees. 
who set fire to the holy city and left its streets deserted, just as Jeremiah had predicted. 
who never tell the truth : and lie even under oath. 
May all his descendants die, : and may his name be forgotten in the next generation. 
He divided the sea and took them through it; : he made the waters stand like walls. 
because the truth remains in us and will be with us for ever. 
In the same way, because of the mercy that you have received, the Jews now disobey God, in order that they also may now receive God's mercy. 
And to love God with all your heart and with all your mind and with all your strength, and to love your neighbour as yourself, is more important than to offer animals and other sacrifices to God.” 
So the prophets prayed louder and cut themselves with knives and daggers, according to their ritual, until blood flowed. 
they are forgotten by all who knew them. 
Happiness makes for a long life and makes it worth living. 
Don't try to convince the Lord that you are righteous or make a show of your wisdom before the king. 
At that time the members of the churches in Judea did not know me personally. 
Uzziah and the other officials said to her, “You have our blessing. May the Lord our God guide you as you take revenge on our enemies.” Then they left Judith's roof-top shelter and returned to their posts.Then Judith put ashes on her head, opened her robe to reveal the sackcloth she was wearing under her clothes, and bowed down with her face to the floor. It was the time that the evening incense was being offered in the Temple in Jerusalem, and Judith prayed in a loud voice
Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he became king of Judah, and he ruled in Jerusalem for three months and ten days. He too sinned against the LORD. 
Now order all the people of Israel to meet me at Mount Carmel. Bring along the 450 prophets of Baal and the 400 prophets of the goddess Asherah who are supported by Queen Jezebel.” 
I am as useless as a discarded wineskin; : yet I have not forgotten your commands. 
“This is where I will live for ever; : this is where I want to rule. 
Do not use harmful words, but only helpful words, the kind that build up and provide what is needed, so that what you say will do good to those who hear you. 
Look, the enemy is coming like clouds. Their war chariots are like a whirlwind, and their horses are faster than eagles. We are lost! We are doomed! 
Receive my prayer as incense, : my uplifted hands as an evening sacrifice. 
Zela, Haeleph, Jebus (or Jerusalem), Gibeah, and Kiriath Jearim: fourteen cities, along with the towns round them. This is the land which the families of the tribe of Benjamin received as their possession.
and Judah went into battle together. The LORD gave them victory over the Canaanites and the Perizzites, and they defeated 10,000 men at Bezek. 
So Moses spoke to the Israelites, and each of their leaders gave him a stick, one for each tribe, twelve in all, and Aaron's stick was put with them. 
You have six days in which to do your work, but remember that the seventh day, the Sabbath, is a day of rest. On that day do not work, but gather for worship. The Sabbath belongs to the LORD, no matter where you live. 
to go and say to Hananiah: “The LORD has said that you may be able to break a wooden yoke, but he will replace it with an iron yoke. 
those who find pleasure in doing wrong and who enjoy senseless evil, 
He followed the correct policy of reforming the nation and removed the horrors of idolatry. 
“I have obeyed all these commandments,” the young man replied. “What else do I need to do?” 
Because those people refuse to keep in mind the true knowledge about God, he has given them over to corrupted minds, so that they do the things that they should not do. 
and then to the rest: all seven brothers married the woman and died without having children. Last of all, the woman died. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “denounce the prophets of Israel who make up their own prophecies. Tell them to listen to the word of the LORD.” 
which extended round the courtyard. This outer courtyard was at a lower level than the inner courtyard. 
Amasa's body, covered with blood, was lying in the middle of the road. Joab's man saw that everybody was stopping, so he dragged the body from the road into the field and threw a blanket over it. 
Instead, I warned the young people among them: do not keep the laws your ancestors made; do not follow their customs or defile yourselves with their idols. 
“The southern boundary runs south-west from Tamar to the oasis of Kadesh Meribah, and then north-west along the Egyptian border to the Mediterranean Sea. 
Jesus answered them, “How wrong you are! And do you know why? It is because you don't know the Scriptures or God's power.  
When the time came for her to give birth, it was discovered that she was going to have twins. 
The LORD spoke to me about the nations, 
Then he pointed to his disciples and said, “Look! Here are my mother and my brothers!  
For whoever wants to save their own life will lose it, but whoever loses their life for my sake will save it.  
At this the woman came and fell at his feet. “Help me, sir!” she said. 
Protect me, LORD, from the power of the wicked; : keep me safe from violent people : who plot my downfall. 
King Solomon gave the queen of Sheba everything she asked for. This was in addition to what he gave her in exchange for the gifts she brought to him. Then she and her attendants returned to the land of Sheba. 
He helps those who are in trouble; : he lifts those who have fallen. 
You have done me a great favour and saved my life. But the hills are too far away; the disaster will overtake me, and I will die before I get there. 
Hagar asked herself, “Have I really seen God and lived to tell about it?” So she called the LORD who had spoken to her “A God who Sees”. 
and, just as the LORD had foretold through Moses, the king would not let the Israelites go.
And he added, “Mortal man, I am going to cut off the supply of bread for Jerusalem. The people there will be distressed and anxious as they measure out the food they eat and the water they drink. 
Justice will be the measuring line for the foundation, and honesty will be its plumb line.” : Hailstorms will sweep away all the lies you depend on, and floods will destroy your security. 
“They will say that only through me : are victory and strength to be found; : but all who hate me will suffer disgrace. 
It was during his reign that the Babylonian army, commanded by King Nebuchadnezzar's officers, marched against Jerusalem and besieged it. 
The men of Judah attacked Jerusalem and captured it. They killed its people and set fire to the city. 
Ahab went home, depressed and angry over what Naboth had said to him. He lay down on his bed, facing the wall, and would not eat. 
Everything that belongs to the world — what the sinful self desires, what people see and want, and everything in this world that people are so proud of — none of this comes from the Father; it all comes from the world. 
Amariah the High Priest will have final authority in all religious cases, and Zebadiah son of Ishmael, governor of Judah, will have final authority in all civil cases. The Levites have the responsibility of seeing that the decisions of the courts are carried out. Be courageous and carry out these instructions, and may the LORD be on the side of the right!”
Then the earth trembled and shook; : the foundations of the sky rocked and quivered : because God was angry! 
The people must consider the priest holy, because he presents the food offerings to me. I am the LORD; I am holy and I make my people holy. 
because our mortal bodies weigh our souls down. The body is a temporary structure made of earth, a burden to the active mind. 
“Do not take advantage of anyone or rob him. Do not hold back the wages of someone you have hired, not even for one night. 
The tank was placed near the south-east corner of the Temple. 
But because our ancestors made the God of Heaven angry, he let them be conquered by King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia, a king of the Chaldean dynasty. The Temple was destroyed, and the people were taken into exile in Babylonia. 
Nothing that I had worked for and earned meant a thing to me, because I knew that I would have to leave it to my successor, 
From deep inside the fish Jonah prayed to the LORD his God
If you do this, both God and people will be pleased with you. 
And they gave Rebecca their blessing in these words: : “May you, sister, become the mother of millions! : May your descendants conquer the cities of their enemies!” 
You will eat, but not be satisfied — in fact you will still be hungry. You will carry things off, but you will not be able to save them; anything you do save I will destroy in war. 
The reward for doing good is life, but sin leads only to more sin. 
David took the bones of Saul and Jonathan and also gathered up the bones of the seven men who had been hanged. 
“You are the people of the LORD your God. So when you mourn for the dead, don't gash yourselves or shave the front of your head, as other people do. 
But you do not live as your human nature tells you to; instead, you live as the Spirit tells you to — if, in fact, God's Spirit lives in you. Whoever does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. 
Seat an enemy at your right-hand, and the next thing you know he'll be trying to get your own place of honour. Put him next to you, and he will overthrow you. Then you will realize the truth of my words, and be stung with regret when you remember them. 
You know that Christ is righteous; you should know, then, that everyone who does what is right is God's child.
But Paul appealed; he asked to be kept under guard and to let the Emperor decide his case. So I gave orders for him to be kept under guard until I could send him to the Emperor.” 
They take advantage of widows and rob them of their homes, and then make a show of saying long prayers. Their punishment will be all the worse!” 
When Reuben came back to the well and found that Joseph was not there, he tore his clothes in sorrow. 
Listen to what your father teaches you, my children. Pay attention, and you will have understanding. 
Jesus knew that by now everything had been completed; and in order to make the scripture come true, he said, “I am thirsty.” 
Whoever does not remain in me is thrown out like a branch and dries up; such branches are gathered up and thrown into the fire, where they are burnt.  
The Assyrian guards will grab their weapons and rush back to camp to wake up their officers. The officers will run to Holofernes' tent but will not find him, and the whole army will be terrified and retreat as you advance against them. 
I have made up my mind not to spare this city, but to destroy it. It will be given over to the king of Babylonia and he will burn it to the ground. I, the LORD, have spoken.” 
The LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, says, “I am going to punish Amon, the god of Thebes, together with Egypt and its gods and kings. I am going to take the king of Egypt and all who put their trust in him, 
The prophet Miriam, Aaron's sister, took her tambourine, and all the women followed her, playing tambourines and dancing. 
So the LORD became angry with Israel and let King Cushan Rishathaim of Mesopotamia conquer them, and he ruled over them for eight years. 
Do to them what you did to the Midianites, : and to Sisera and Jabin at the River Kishon. 
If a man offers a sheep, 
In it I saw all the women left in Judah's royal palace being led out to the king of Babylonia's officers. Listen to what they were saying as they went: : ‘The king's best friends misled him, : they overruled him. : And now that his feet have sunk in the mud, : his friends have left him.’ ” 
Some of your people murder for pay. Some charge interest on the loans they make to their fellow-Israelites and get rich by taking advantage of them. They have forgotten me.” The Sovereign LORD has spoken. 
Then Moses called Joshua and said to him in the presence of all the people of Israel, “Be determined and confident; you are the one who will lead these people to occupy the land that the LORD promised to their ancestors. 
May the Most High God, who gave you victory over your enemies, be praised!” And Abram gave Melchizedek a tenth of all the loot he had recovered. 
for each lamp and lampstand, 
Nor does anyone pour new wine into used wineskins, because the wine will burst the skins, and both the wine and the skins will be ruined. Instead, new wine must be poured into fresh wineskins.” 
Why should you and your people die in war or of starvation or disease? That is what the LORD has said will happen to any nation that does not submit to the king of Babylonia. 
And Solomon continued, “My father David planned to build a temple for the worship of the LORD God of Israel, 
The LORD has chosen Cyrus to be king! : He has appointed him to conquer nations; : he sends him to strip kings of their power; : the LORD will open the gates of cities for him. : To Cyrus the LORD says, 
There was a man named Elkanah, from the tribe of Ephraim, who lived in the town of Ramah in the hill country of Ephraim. He was the son of Jeroham and grandson of Elihu, and belonged to the family of Tohu, a part of the clan of Zuph. 
I brought him to your disciples, but they could not heal him.” 
and the seven years of famine began, just as Joseph had said. There was famine in every other country, but there was food throughout Egypt. 
So they must no longer use the words ‘the LORD's burden’, because if anyone does, I will make my message a real burden to him. The people have perverted the words of their God, the living God, the LORD Almighty. 
Then he brought out clothing and silver and gold jewellery, and gave them to Rebecca. He also gave expensive gifts to her brother and to her mother. 
Please, sir, accept this present I have brought you, and give it to your men. 
Elisha went to Damascus at a time when King Benhadad of Syria was ill. When the king was told that Elisha was there, 
From the territory of Reuben they received four cities: Bezer, Jahaz, 
That is why many of you are weak and ill, and several have died. 
Then the LORD said to Elijah, 
Teach the king to judge with your righteousness, O God; : share with him your own justice, 
King Zedekiah sent Jehucal son of Shelemiah and the priest Zephaniah son of Maaseiah to ask me to pray to the LORD our God on behalf of our nation. 
The LORD our God brought our fathers and us out of slavery in Egypt, and we saw the miracles that he performed. He kept us safe wherever we went among all the nations through which we passed. 
“Be honest and just when you make decisions in legal cases; do not show favouritism to the poor or fear the rich. 
Make sure that there is no one here today who hears these solemn demands and yet convinces himself that all will be well with him, even if he stubbornly goes his own way. That would destroy all of you, good and evil alike. 
they all decided to celebrate for another seven days. So they celebrated with joy. 
We got some shelter when we passed to the south of the little island of Cauda. There, with some difficulty, we managed to make the ship's boat secure. 
That grace instructs us to give up ungodly living and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in this world, 
to serve as an apostle in the place of Judas, who left to go to the place where he belongs.” 
‘When my father was about to die, he made me promise him that I would bury him in the tomb which he had prepared in the land of Canaan. So please let me go and bury my father, and then I will come back.’ ” 
A man's wickedness is better than a woman's goodness; women bring shame and disgrace. 
“Who are you, then?” they asked. “Are you Elijah?” : “No, I am not,” John answered. : “Are you the Prophet?” they asked. : “No,” he replied. 
But just as your tongue enjoys tasting food, : your ears enjoy hearing words. 
God did not choose us to suffer his anger, but to possess salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, 
you crushed the heads of the monster Leviathan : and fed his body to desert animals. 
He sees the whole of time, from beginning to end, : and nothing takes him by surprise. 
Those who claim to be respectable : are more and more convinced they are right. 
Blow the war trumpets in Gibeah! Sound the alarm in Ramah! Raise the war cry at Bethaven! Into battle, men of Benjamin! 
“My Samaritan ancestors worshipped God on this mountain, but you Jews say that Jerusalem is the place where we should worship God.” 
Great and mighty is our Lord; : his wisdom cannot be measured. 
On the first day of the… month of the eleventh year of our exile, the LORD spoke to me. 
Obey all his laws that I have given you today, and all will go well with you and your descendants. You will continue to live in the land which the LORD your God is giving you to be yours for ever.” 
They brought him back to King Jehoiakim, who had him killed and his body thrown into the public burial ground.) 
In the ruins of the cities lambs will eat grass and young goats will find pasture. 
Whenever a sheep was killed by wild animals, I always bore the loss myself. I didn't take it to you to show that it was not my fault. You demanded that I make good anything that was stolen during the day or during the night. 
When the Covenant Box arrived, the Israelites gave such a loud shout of joy that the earth shook. 
While the voice was speaking, God's Spirit entered me and raised me to my feet, and I heard the voice continue, 
Jesus answered, “What I teach is not my own teaching, but it comes from God, who sent me.  
You will be merciful to us once again. You will trample our sins underfoot and send them to the bottom of the sea! 
Greetings to Herodion, a fellow-Jew, and to the Christians in the family of Narcissus. 
But a woman will be saved through having children, if she perseveres in faith and love and holiness, with modesty.
But not everyone knows this truth. Some people have been so used to idols that to this day when they eat such food they still think of it as food that belongs to an idol; their conscience is weak, and they feel they are defiled by the food. 
When Saul heard of this, he sent more messengers, and they also began to dance and shout. He sent messengers the third time, and the same thing happened to them. 
80,000 of the best Benjaminite soldiers were killed. 
The body of Joseph, which the people of Israel had brought from Egypt, was buried at Shechem, in the piece of land that Jacob had bought from the sons of Hamor, the father of Shechem, for a hundred pieces of silver. This land was inherited by Joseph's descendants. 
(The LORD has said that the whole earth will become a wilderness, but that he will not completely destroy it.) 
Is knowledge a useful thing to have? Nothing is better than Wisdom, who has given shape to everything that exists. 
About the Son, however, God said: : “Your kingdom, O God, will last for ever and ever! : You rule over your people with justice. 
So they cried out to the LORD, “O LORD, we pray, don't punish us with death for taking this man's life! You, O LORD, are responsible for all this; it is your doing.” 
She presented to King Solomon the gifts she had brought: more than four tonnes of gold and a very large amount of spices and jewels. There have never been any other spices as fine as those that the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon. 
I will tell him that you are shepherds and take care of livestock and that you have brought your flocks and herds and everything else that belongs to you. 
From the territory of Asher they received four cities: Mishal, Abdon, 
I have no appetite for food like that, : and everything I eat makes me sick. 
But now to continue — the son who will receive his father's property is treated just like a slave while he is young, even though he really owns everything. 
Jonadab's descendants have obeyed his command not to drink wine, and to this very day none of them drink any. But I have kept on speaking to you, and you have not obeyed me. 
Do not let your passions carry you away; this can tear your soul to pieces like a bull.  
King Josiah summoned all the leaders of Judah and Jerusalem, 
I am going to give you so many descendants that no one will be able to count them all; it would be as easy to count all the specks of dust on earth! 
Now come down from the cross and save yourself!” 
I praise God, : because he did not reject my prayer : or keep back his constant love from me.
For fourteen days after a woman gives birth to a daughter, she is ritually unclean, as she is during her monthly period. Then it will be 66 more days before she is ritually clean from her loss of blood. 
Then the Israelites turned and took the road to Bashan, and King Og of Bashan marched out with his army to attack them at Edrei. 
and be ready the day after tomorrow. On that day I will come down on Mount Sinai, where all the people can see me. 
The people of Israel were like a grapevine that was full of grapes. The more prosperous they were, the more altars they built. The more productive their land was, the more beautiful they made the sacred stone pillars they worship. 
The LORD God Almighty himself says, “People of Israel, I am going to send a foreign army to occupy your country. It will oppress you from Hamath Pass in the north to the brook of the Arabah in the south.”
Do not offer to the LORD any animal whose testicles have been crushed, cut, bruised, or torn off. This is not permitted in your land. 
by evil people who trust in their riches : and boast of their great wealth. 
You might learn their habits and not be able to change. 
and said to him, “This is what the LORD says: ‘Because you sent messengers to consult Baalzebub, the god of Ekron — as if there were no god in Israel to consult — you will not get well; you will die!’ ” 
The sides of the tank were 75 millimetres thick. Its rim was like the rim of a cup, curving outwards like the petals of a flower. The tank held about 60,000 litres. 
He gave laws to the people of Israel : and commandments to the descendants of Jacob. : He instructed our ancestors : to teach his laws to their children, 
I have been with you now for twenty years; your sheep and your goats have not failed to reproduce, and I have not eaten any rams from your flocks. 
Do not add any widow to the list of widows unless she is over sixty years of age. In addition, she must have been married only once  
10,000 men, specially chosen out of all Israel, attacked Gibeah, and the fighting was hard. The Benjaminites had not realized that they were about to be destroyed. 
do not be stubborn, as your ancestors were when they rebelled against God, : as they were that day in the desert : when they put him to the test. 
If you do not obey the LORD, then you will be destroyed just like those nations that he is going to destroy as you advance.
He will rule his people with justice and integrity. 
For the back of the Tent, on the west, they made six frames 
In the fourth year that Darius was emperor, on the fourth day of the ninth month (the month of Kislev), the LORD gave me a message. 
When Arpachshad was 35 years old, he had a son, Shelah; 
I gave them the same glory you gave me, so that they may be one, just as you and I are one
When King Jehoiakim and his soldiers and officials heard what Uriah had said, the king tried to have him killed. But Uriah heard about it; so he fled in terror and escaped to Egypt. 
It is better to work and have more than you need than to go about boasting but hungry. 
Are any of you in trouble? You should pray. Are any of you happy? You should sing praises. 
So Obadiah went to King Ahab and told him, and Ahab set off to meet Elijah. 
They took regular turns of duty at the Tent of the LORD's presence during the time before King Solomon built the Temple. 
Presumptuous people talk about things that are none of their business, but the wise will consider the consequences of what they say. 
The man answered, “Who made you our ruler and judge? Are you going to kill me just as you killed that Egyptian?” Then Moses was afraid and said to himself, “People have found out what I have done.” 
Moses said to the LORD, “It is true that you have told me to lead these people to that land, but you did not tell me whom you would send with me. You have said that you know me well and are pleased with me. 
Two of the seventy leaders, Eldad and Medad, had stayed in the camp and had not gone out to the Tent. There in the camp the spirit came on them, and they too began to shout like prophets. 
They shall do the work required for the Tent of my presence and perform duties for the priests and for the whole community. 
They will kill you and send you to a watery grave. 
She answered, “I want some pools of water. The land you have given me is in the dry country.” So Caleb gave her the upper and lower springs. 
Put in front of the Tent the altar for burning offerings. 
Peter knocked at the outside door, and a servant named Rhoda came to answer it. 
When Jesus had finished saying all these things to the people, he went to Capernaum. 
The proud have told lies about me, : but with all my heart I obey your instructions. 
If the woman cannot afford a lamb, she shall bring two doves or two pigeons, one for a burnt offering and the other for a sin offering, and the priest shall perform the ritual to take away her impurity, and she will be ritually clean.
The Spirit took control of me, and the angel carried me to a desert. There I saw a woman sitting on a red beast that had names insulting to God written all over it; the beast had seven heads and ten horns. 
When the Ammonites saw the Syrians running away, they fled from Abishai and retreated into the city. Then Joab turned back from fighting the Ammonites and went back to Jerusalem. 
They killed those innocent children, : and the land was defiled by those murders. 
But Jesus answered, “The scripture says, ‘Human beings cannot live on bread alone, but need every word that God speaks.’ ” 
Jesus answered, “Have you never read what David did that time when he and his men were hungry?  
“so that all may go well with you, and you may live a long time in the land.” 
He told me to go and say to Israel, “Unfaithful Israel, come back to me. I am merciful and will not be angry; I will not be angry with you for ever. 
Then the king told the servants, ‘Tie him up hand and foot, and throw him outside in the dark. There he will cry and grind his teeth.’ ” 
People will buy them, and the deeds will be signed, sealed, and witnessed. This will take place in the territory of Benjamin, in the villages round Jerusalem, in the towns of Judah, and in the towns in the hill country, in the foothills, and in southern Judah. I will restore the people to their land. I, the LORD, have spoken.”
Their stupidity will be evident even to strangers they meet along the way; they let everyone know that they are fools. 
I will bring all the Babylonians and Chaldeans, men from Pekod, Shoa, and Koa, and all the Assyrians. I will gather all those handsome young noblemen and officers, all those important officials and high-ranking cavalry officers. 
The wise will win the confidence of others, and will be remembered for ever. 
With his measuring rod the man measured 500 metres downstream to the east and told me to wade through the stream there. The water came only to my ankles. 
“Keep the Festival of Unleavened Bread. As I have commanded you, eat unleavened bread for seven days in the month of Abib, because it was in that month that you left Egypt. 
Then Jesus said to the woman, “Your sins are forgiven.” 
He studies the hidden meaning of proverbs and is able to discuss the obscure points of parables. 
having lived long enough to hear about the destruction of Nineveh and to see King Cyaxares of Media take the people away as captives. Tobias praised God for the way that he had punished the people of Nineveh and Assyria. As long as he lived he gave thanks for what God had done to Nineveh.
I put all my energy into rebuilding the wall and did not acquire any property. Everyone who worked for me joined in the rebuilding. 
Now then, divide this land among the other nine tribes and half of the tribe of Manasseh, for them to possess as their own.” 
Clans of Solomon's servants who returned from exile
Would any of you who are fathers give your son a stone when he asks for bread?  
I will not die; instead, I will live : and proclaim what the LORD has done. 
Ethni, Zerah, Adaiah, 
When the crowds saw what Paul had done, they started shouting in their own Lycaonian language, “The gods have become like men and have come down to us!” 
I had another vision from the Sovereign LORD. In it I saw a basket of fruit. 
Israel has sinned! They have broken the agreement with me that I ordered them to keep. They have taken some of the things condemned to destruction. They stole them, lied about it, and put them with their own things. 
Nathan answered, “Do whatever you have in mind, because God is with you.” 
and third was Amasiah son of Zichri, with 200,000. (Amasiah had volunteered to serve the LORD.) 
It was faith that made Abraham obey when God called him to go out to a country which God had promised to give him. He left his own country without knowing where he was going. 
So if Satan's kingdom has groups fighting each other, how can it last? You say that I drive out demons because Beelzebul gives me the power to do so.  
and sat down about a hundred metres away. She said to herself, “I can't bear to see my child die.” While she was sitting there, she began to cry. 
Then the officers who had commanded the army went to Moses 
If you pamper your child and play with him, he will be a disappointment and a source of grief. 
Their gods are made of silver and gold, : formed by human hands. 
“When you gather your crops and fail to bring in some of the corn that you have cut, do not go back for it; it is to be left for the foreigners, orphans, and widows, so that the LORD your God will bless you in everything you do. 
but compared with all eternity, those years are like a drop of water in the ocean, like a single grain of sand. 
Elijah left and found Elisha ploughing with a team of oxen; there were eleven teams ahead of him, and he was ploughing with the last one. Elijah took off his cloak and put it on Elisha. 
My Father's glory is shown by your bearing much fruit; and in this way you become my disciples. 
There are mines where silver is dug; : There are places where gold is refined. 
They found Adonibezek there and fought against him. 
Your streets will be paved with rubies and precious jewels. 
The LORD takes pleasure in his people; : he honours the humble with victory. 
Never again will the light of a lamp be seen in you; no more will the voices of brides and grooms be heard in you. Your merchants were the most powerful in all the world, and with your false magic you deceived all the peoples of the world!” 
Micaiah told them everything that he had heard Baruch read to the people. 
When I come, then, I will call attention to everything he has done: the terrible things he says about us and the lies he tells! But that is not enough for him; he will not receive our fellow-Christians when they come, and even stops those who want to receive them and tries to drive them out of the church! 
You have not come, as the people of Israel came, to what you can feel, to Mount Sinai with its blazing fire, the darkness and the gloom, the storm, 
All the people immediately bowed down with their faces to the ground to worship their Lord, the Almighty, the Most High. 
My God loves me and will come to me; : he will let me see my enemies defeated. 
The danger of death was all round me; : the horrors of the grave closed in on me; : I was filled with fear and anxiety. 
God raised him to his right-hand side as Leader and Saviour, to give the people of Israel the opportunity to repent and have their sins forgiven. 
They were filled with rage and began to discuss among themselves what they could do to Jesus. 
The system which brings condemnation was glorious; how much more glorious is the activity which brings salvation! 
After the peace delegation had brought this message, 
As Adonijah and all his guests were finishing the feast, they heard the noise. And when Joab heard the trumpet, he asked, “What's the meaning of all that noise in the city?” 
LORD, don't give the wicked what they want; : don't let their plots succeed. 
May nations be your servants, and may peoples bow down before you. May you rule over all your relatives, and may your mother's descendants bow down before you. May those who curse you be cursed, and may those who bless you be blessed.” 
Martha was upset over all the work she had to do, so she came and said, “Lord, don't you care that my sister has left me to do all the work by myself? Tell her to come and help me!” 
The people lost their courage and shook with fear; they were in pain, like a woman in labour. 
The Levite got up to go, but the father urged him to stay, so he spent another night there. 
Then Raphael disappeared into the sky. Tobit and Tobias stood up, but they could no longer see him. 
Eglon, Gezer, 
They kept talking as they walked on; then suddenly a chariot of fire pulled by horses of fire came between them, and Elijah was taken up to heaven by a whirlwind. 
Before them all I said to Baruch, 
They do not speak in a friendly way; : instead they invent all kinds of lies about peace-loving people. 
Then they rejected the pleasant land, : because they did not believe God's promise. 
The priests and the Levites asked the LORD's blessing on the people. In his home in heaven God heard their prayers and accepted them.
Come to me and save me; : rescue me from my enemies. 
The LORD said to King Jehoiachin, son of King Jehoiakim of Judah, “As surely as I am the living God, even if you were the signet ring on my right-hand, I would pull you off 
God's Covenant Box was captured, and Eli's sons, Hophni and Phinehas, were both killed. 
but the LORD said to him, ‘You were right in wanting to build a temple for me, 
Do not make any treaties with the people of the country, because when they worship their pagan gods and sacrifice to them, they will invite you to join them, and you will be tempted to eat the food they offer to their gods. 
Then the people who had been living in the land tried to discourage and frighten the Jews and keep them from building. 
Make the altar out of boards and leave it hollow, according to the plan that I showed you on the mountain. 
Then all the people of Israel again started bringing to the temple storerooms their tithes of corn, wine, and olive oil. 
Do not destroy me with the sinners; : spare me from the fate of murderers — 
God has filled him with his power and given him skill, ability, and understanding for every kind of artistic work, 
A city becomes great when the righteous give it their blessing; but a city is brought to ruin by the words of the wicked. 
When you harvest your fields, do not cut the corn at the edges of the fields, and do not go back to cut the ears of corn that were left; leave them for poor people and foreigners. The LORD is your God. 
The whole crowd answered, “Let the responsibility for his death fall on us and our children!” 
When Peter saw him, he asked Jesus, “Lord, what about this man?” 
while Peter stayed outside by the gate. Then the other disciple went back out, spoke to the girl at the gate, and brought Peter inside. 
David sent messengers to fetch her; they brought her to him and he made love to her. (She had just finished her monthly ritual of purification.) Then she went back home. 
Jacob answered, “I will give it to you if you give me your rights as the firstborn son.” 
Now, don't try to stop me. I am angry with them, and I am going to destroy them. Then I will make you and your descendants into a great nation.” 
Jeremiah had been badly treated, even though he was chosen as a prophet before he was born, “to uproot and to pull down, to destroy and to overthrow,” but also “to build and to plant.” 
But, LORD, you know all their plots to kill me. Do not forgive their evil or pardon their sin. Throw them down in defeat and deal with them while you are angry.”
I have already given her to seven men, all of them relatives. Each one died on his wedding night, as soon as he entered the bedroom. But now, my son, have something to eat and drink. The Lord will take care of you both.” : Tobias replied, “I won't eat or drink until you give me your word.” 
Then the disciples understood that he was not warning them to guard themselves from the yeast used in bread but from the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees. 
You hated the people who lived in your holy land long ago, because they did horrible things: they practised magic and conducted unholy worship; 
Do not build an altar for me with steps leading up to it; if you do, you will expose yourselves as you go up the steps.
He wiped out all his enemies and permanently crushed the Philistines, so that they never again became a threat. 
Hezekiah died and was buried in the upper section of the royal tombs. All the people of Judah and Jerusalem paid him great honour at his death. His son Manasseh succeeded him as king.
The survivors fled into the city of Aphek, where the city walls fell on 27,000 of them. : Benhadad also escaped into the city and took refuge in the back room of a house. 
Never ask, “Oh, why were things so much better in the old days?” It's not an intelligent question. 
She is familiar with God's mysteries and helps to determine his course of action. 
and while they were in Bethlehem, the time came for her to have her baby. 
Then they divided among the people, by family groups, the animals for burnt offerings, so that they could offer them according to the instructions in the Law of Moses. 
Some Pharisees and teachers of the Law who had come from Jerusalem gathered round Jesus. 
Joseph said to his brothers, “I am Joseph. Is my father still alive?” But when his brothers heard this, they were so terrified that they could not answer. 
“Do not offer bread made with yeast when you sacrifice an animal to me. The fat of animals sacrificed to me during these festivals is not to be left until the following morning. 
No king ever began life differently. 
Before the spies settled down for the night, Rahab went up on the roof 
Then you will discover the peace of mind she offers, and she will become your joy.
Simon Peter went aboard and dragged the net ashore full of big fish, 153 in all; even though there were so many, still the net did not tear. 
Intelligent people think before they speak; what they say is then more persuasive. 
Who tells the ibis when the Nile will flood, : or who tells the cock that rain will fall? 
“In a certain town there was a judge who neither feared God nor respected people.  
None of those who are children of God continue to sin, for God's very nature is in them; and because God is their Father, they cannot continue to sin. 
He lived to see Ephraim's children and grandchildren. He also lived to receive the children of Machir son of Manasseh into the family. 
“Let everyone tell of his greatness : and sing his praises in Jerusalem. 
and then God will bring disaster on the city that is called “God's altar”. There will be weeping and wailing, and the whole city will be like an altar covered with blood. 
Honour the LORD, all his people; : those who obey him have all they need. 
Indeed, I tell you, the master will put that servant in charge of all his property.  
Peter and the other apostles replied, “We must obey God, not men. 
And besides that, he has been chosen and appointed by the churches to travel with us as we carry out this service of love for the sake of the Lord's glory, and in order to show that we want to help. 
Hilkiah, Tebaliah, and Zechariah. In all there were thirteen members of Hosah's family who were temple guards. 
Each one must be circumcised, and this will be a physical sign to show that my covenant with you is everlasting. 
City of Sidon, your happiness has ended, and your people are oppressed. Even if they escape to Cyprus, they will still not be safe. 
He named the land “Earth”, and the water which had come together he named “Sea”. And God was pleased with what he saw. 
He said to me, “Go in and look at the evil, disgusting things they are doing there.” 
There was Ekron with its towns and villages, 
I shall probably spend some time with you, perhaps the whole winter, and then you can help me to continue my journey, wherever it is I shall go next. 
The family line from Ram to Jesse is as follows: Ram, Amminadab, Nahshon (a prominent man of the tribe of Judah), 
And that is just what happened to him — he died, trampled to death by the people at the city gate.
He wanted me to come and help you; I did not come on my own. So sing God's praises as long as you live. 
Then he returned to the disciples and said, “Are you still sleeping and resting? Look! The hour has come for the Son of Man to be handed over to the power of sinners.  
The LORD has driven great and powerful nations out as you advanced and no one has ever been able to stand against you. 
and lends money for profit. Will he live? No, he will not. He has done all these disgusting things, and so he will die. He will be to blame for his own death. 
She had followed his instructions, and had gone with her family to live in Philistia for the seven years. 
The people were amazed as they saw the dumb speaking, the crippled made whole, the lame walking, and the blind seeing; and they praised the God of Israel. 
While they were drinking, Belshazzar gave orders to bring in the gold and silver cups and bowls which his father Nebuchadnezzar had carried off from the Temple in Jerusalem. The king sent for them so that he, his noblemen, his wives, and his concubines could drink out of them. 
The sailors said to one another, “Let's draw lots and find out who is to blame for getting us into this danger.” They did so, and Jonah's name was drawn. 
They still had their eyes fixed on the sky as he went away, when two men dressed in white suddenly stood beside them 
You have been married to five men, and the man you live with now is not really your husband. You have told me the truth.” 
So Mephibosheth, who was crippled in both feet, lived in Jerusalem, eating all his meals at the king's table.
Elisha got up, walked about the room, and then went back and again stretched himself over the boy. The boy sneezed seven times, and then opened his eyes. 
After this, Manasseh increased the height of the outer wall on the east side of David's City, from a point in the valley near the spring of Gihon north to the Fish Gate and the area of the city called Ophel. He also stationed an army officer in command of a unit of troops in each of the fortified cities of Judah. 
Everyone must die once, and after that be judged by God. 
You may eat any kind of fish that has fins and scales, 
“Is he well?” he asked. : “He is well,” they answered. “Look, here comes his daughter Rachel with his flock.” 
My commandment is this: love one another, just as I love you.  
May I never be able to sing again : if I do not remember you, : if I do not think of you as my greatest joy! 
“Why do you look at the speck in your brother's eye, but pay no attention to the log in your own eye?  
Let me bring some water for you to wash your feet; you can rest here beneath this tree. 
In our Law Moses commanded that such a woman must be stoned to death. Now, what do you say?” 
That same day the number of people killed in Susa was reported to the king. 
While I was living in Geshur in Syria, I promised the LORD that if he would take me back to Jerusalem, I would worship him in Hebron.” 
But to this very day I have been helped by God, and so I stand here giving my witness to all, to small and great alike. What I say is the very same thing which the prophets and Moses said was going to happen
Saul took 3,000 of the best soldiers in Israel and went looking for David and his men east of Wild Goat Rocks. 
The first son that they have will be considered the son of the dead man, so that his family line will continue in Israel. 
Go quickly now, and tell his disciples, ‘He has been raised from death, and now he is going to Galilee ahead of you; there you will see him!’ Remember what I have told you.” 
“In the days after that time of trouble the sun will grow dark, the moon will no longer shine,  
And Noah did everything that the LORD commanded. 
But if not, be quiet and listen to me, : and I will teach you how to be wise.
But the two are not the same, because God's free gift is not like Adam's sin. It is true that many people died because of the sin of that one man. But God's grace is much greater, and so is his free gift to so many people through the grace of the one man, Jesus Christ. 
A person who is alive and well can sing the Lord's praises, but the dead, who no longer exist, have no way to give him thanks. 
I will give loud thanks to the LORD; : I will praise him in the assembly of the people, 
You dragged your beauty through the mud. You offered yourself to everyone who came by, and you were more of a prostitute every day. 
bless those who curse you, and pray for those who ill-treat you.  
The princess opened it and saw a baby boy. He was crying, and she felt sorry for him. “This is one of the Hebrew babies,” she said. 
This is what I mean, my brothers and sisters. When you meet for worship, one person has a hymn, another a teaching, another a revelation from God, another a message in strange tongues, and still another the explanation of what is said. Everything must be of help to the church. 
If you don't punish your son, you don't love him. If you do love him, you will correct him. 
They said, “Now let's build a city with a tower that reaches the sky, so that we can make a name for ourselves and not be scattered all over the earth.” 
because they have stopped following him : and ignored all his commands. 
“This is what the LORD has said about the Assyrian emperor: ‘He will not enter this city or shoot a single arrow against it. No soldiers with shields will come near the city, and no siege mounds will be built round it. 
but he will not hesitate to punish those who hate him. 
He shall stay with you as a hired servant and serve you until the next Year of Restoration. 
The people of Israel who survive will be like refreshing dew sent by the LORD for many nations, like showers on growing plants. They will depend on God, not human beings. 
Canaan's sons — Sidon, the eldest, and Heth — were the ancestors of the peoples who bear their names. 
I will live among you in my sacred tent, and I will never turn away from you. 
But our ancestors grew proud and stubborn : and refused to obey your commands. 
“If anyone should cause one of these little ones to lose his faith in me, it would be better for that person to have a large millstone tied round his neck and be thrown into the sea.  
And that is how the universe was created. : When the LORD God made the universe, 
The sons of Ham — Cush, Egypt, Libya and Canaan — were the ancestors of the peoples who bear their names. 
To each of the royal provinces he sent a message in the language and the system of writing of that province, saying that every husband should be the master of his home and speak with final authority.
Kill the old men, young men, young women, mothers, and children. But don't touch anyone who has the mark on his forehead. Start here at my Temple.” So they began with the leaders who were standing there at the Temple. 
Moses did as the LORD had commanded him. He made Joshua stand before Eleazar the priest and the whole community. 
The LORD inspired everyone to work on the Temple: Zerubbabel, the governor of Judah; Joshua, the High Priest, and all the people who had returned from the exile. They began working on the Temple of the LORD Almighty, their God, 
You were very careful and patient in punishing your people's enemies; even when they deserved to die, you gave them every opportunity to give up their sinful ways. 
My children, I shall not be with you very much longer. You will look for me; but I tell you now what I told the Jewish authorities, ‘You cannot go where I am going.’  
He settled me in the Beloved City : and gave me authority over Jerusalem. 
And the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego to higher positions in the province of Babylon.
In union with Christ you were circumcised, not with the circumcision that is made by human beings, but with the circumcision made by Christ, which consists of being freed from the power of this sinful self. 
You helped me when no one else would; : in your great mercy you saved me : from the many troubles I have known: : from the glaring hatred of my enemies, : who wanted to put an end to my life; 
Have you heard a rumour? Let it die with you. Be brave! It won't make you explode. 
He was arrested and sentenced and led off to die, : and no one cared about his fate. : He was put to death for the sins of our people. 
I also want the women to be modest and sensible about their clothes and to dress properly; not with fancy hair styles or with gold ornaments or pearls or expensive dresses, 
of being a servant of Christ Jesus to work for the Gentiles. I serve like a priest in preaching the Good News from God, in order that the Gentiles may be an offering acceptable to God, dedicated to him by the Holy Spirit. 
The fortified cities were Ziddim, Zer, Hammath, Rakkath, Chinnereth, 
To determine the assignment of duties they all drew lots, whether they were young or old, experts or beginners. 
So then, from now on be obedient to the LORD and stop being stubborn. 
Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away. 
“Now, when the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those tenants?” Jesus asked. 
One of you must go and get him. The rest of you will be kept under guard until the truth of what you say can be tested. Otherwise, as sure as the king lives, you are spies.” 
He took the bull calf which they had made, melted it, ground it into fine powder, and mixed it with water. Then he made the people of Israel drink it. 
Then the man took me into the outer courtyard and led me to a building on the north side of the Temple, not far from the building at the west end of the Temple. 
He was severely wounded, and when the enemy withdrew, two of his officials plotted against him and killed him in his bed to avenge the murder of the son of Jehoiada the priest. He was buried in David's City, but not in the royal tombs. 
Don't commit any crime against the general public, and don't disgrace yourself among your fellow-citizens. 
The LORD says, : “Listen to the sound of crying in Babylon, : of mourning for the destruction in the land. 
He would not speak to them without using parables, but when he was alone with his disciples, he would explain everything to them. 
You are our God! Punish them, for we are helpless in the face of this large army that is attacking us. We do not know what to do, but we look to you for help.” 
I will choose a priest who will be faithful to me and do everything I want him to. I will give him descendants, who will always serve in the presence of my chosen king. 
Whenever your fellow-citizens from any of the cities bring before you a case of homicide or any other violation of a law or commandment, you must instruct them carefully how to conduct themselves during the trial, so that they do not become guilty of sinning against the LORD. Unless you do, you and your fellow-citizens will feel the force of the LORD's anger. But if you do your duty, you will not be guilty. 
Here I am among the people you have chosen to be your own, a people who are so many that they cannot be counted. 
May the LORD give me another son”; so she named him Joseph. 
Other boats, which were from Tiberias, came to shore near the place where the crowd had eaten the bread after the Lord had given thanks. 
“Do not commit adultery. 
So Saul and his servant went on to the town, and as they were going in, they saw Samuel coming out towards them on his way to the place of worship. 
Your borders will reach from the desert in the south to the Lebanon Mountains in the north; from the great River Euphrates in the east, through the Hittite country, to the Mediterranean Sea in the west. 
When it was evening, Jesus and the twelve disciples sat down to eat. 
Then Moses said to the people of Israel, 
When David heard that Uriah had not gone home, he asked him, “You have just returned after a long absence; why didn't you go home?” 
When Saul and his servant arrived at Gibeah, a group of prophets met him. Suddenly the Spirit of God took control of him, and he joined in their ecstatic dancing and shouting. 
The Most High himself hates sinners, and he will punish them. 
“So then, people of Israel, I am going to punish you. And because I am going to do this, get ready to face my judgement!” 
The temple workmen lived in the part of Jerusalem called Ophel and worked under the supervision of Ziha and Gishpa. 
But God in his grace chose me even before I was born, and called me to serve him. And when he decided 
My punishment was good for me, : because it made me learn your commands. 
Peter remembered what had happened and said to Jesus, “Look, Teacher, the fig tree you cursed has died!” 
And one of them struck the High Priest's slave and cut off his right ear. 
I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob as Almighty God, but I did not make myself known to them by my holy name, the LORD.  
Even those who practise circumcision do not obey the Law; they want you to be circumcised so that they can boast that you submitted to this physical ceremony. 
God did not spare the angels who sinned, but threw them into hell, where they are kept chained in darkness, waiting for the Day of Judgement. 
So she gave Bilhah to her husband, and he had intercourse with her. 
for my people, my own flesh and blood! For their sake I could wish that I myself were under God's curse and separated from Christ. 
The entrance to the lowest storey of the annexe was on the south side of the Temple, with stairs leading up to the second and third storeys. 
May God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ give you grace and peace. 
As the scripture says: : “Whoever wants to enjoy life : and wishes to see good times, : must keep from speaking evil : and stop telling lies. 
Lord, pay the other nations back seven times : for all the insults they have hurled at you. 
He must bathe in a holy place and put on his own clothes. After that, he shall go out and offer the burnt offering to remove his own sins and those of the people. 
Jacob went to his father Isaac at Mamre, near Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac had lived. 
Kibzaim, and Beth Horon, with their pasture lands. 
Haven't I the right to be given food and drink for my work? 
He knows how to do his work, because God has taught him. 
Also offer one male goat as a sin offering, and in this way perform the ritual of purification for the people. 
But Barzillai answered, “I haven't long to live; why should I go with Your Majesty to Jerusalem? 
no one buys their gold, silver, precious stones, and pearls; their goods of linen, purple cloth, silk, and scarlet cloth; all kinds of rare woods and all kinds of objects made of ivory and of expensive wood, of bronze, iron, and marble; 
As they go up and down the country, every time they find a human bone, they will put a marker beside it so that the grave diggers can come and bury it in the Valley of Gog's Army. 
My sacrifice is a humble spirit, O God; : you will not reject a humble and repentant heart. 
The same thing will happen to Edom as happened to Sodom and Gomorrah, when they and the nearby towns were destroyed. No one will ever live there again. I, the LORD, have spoken. 
“People of Hazor, I, the LORD, warn you to run far away and hide. King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia has plotted against you, and this is what he says, 
Some of the people there heard him and said, “Listen, he is calling for Elijah!” 
he shall order the stones on which the mildew is found to be removed and thrown into some unclean place outside the city. 
I have been with you wherever you have gone, and I have defeated all your enemies as you advanced. I will make you as famous as the greatest leaders in the world. 
Go and find out what is meant by the scripture that says: ‘It is kindness that I want, not animal sacrifices.’ I have not come to call respectable people, but outcasts.” 
I, the LORD, will speak to them, and what I say will be done. There will be no more delay. In your own lifetime, you rebels, I will do what I have warned you I would do. I have spoken,” says the Sovereign LORD. 
The LORD hates it when wicked people offer him sacrifices, especially if they do it from evil motives. 
He rewards people for what they do : and treats them as they deserve. 
Joseph left them and began to cry. When he was able to speak again, he came back, picked out Simeon, and had him tied up in front of them. 
The LORD has made a solemn promise, and he will not abandon you, for he has decided to make you his own people. 
But when I was in trouble, they were all glad : and gathered round to mock me; : strangers beat me : and kept striking me. 
Day and night your gates will be open, : So that the kings of the nations : May bring you their wealth. 
Do not make false accusations, and do not put an innocent person to death, for I will condemn anyone who does such an evil thing. 
“If you listen to these commands and obey them faithfully, then the LORD your God will continue to keep his covenant with you and will show you his constant love, as he promised your ancestors. 
They deliberately put God to the test : by demanding the food they wanted. 
Agrippa said to Paul, “You have permission to speak on your own behalf.” Paul stretched out his hand and defended himself as follows
Do not follow the majority when they do wrong or when they give evidence that perverts justice. 
A hard-working farmer has plenty to eat. People who waste time will always be poor. 
The Holy Spirit clearly teaches from all these arrangements that the way into the Most Holy Place has not yet been opened as long as the outer Tent still stands. 
Anyone who has to drink milk is still a child, without any experience in the matter of right and wrong. 
In the month of Abib, the month in which you left Egypt, celebrate the Festival of Unleavened Bread in the way that I commanded you. Do not eat any bread made with yeast during the seven days of this festival. Never come to worship me without bringing an offering. 
Elijah obeyed the LORD's command, and went and stayed by the brook of Cherith. 
“How do you know that Saul and Jonathan are dead?” David asked him. 
I came to set sons against their fathers, daughters against their mothers, daughters-in-law against their mothers-in-law;  
There will be loud crying all over Egypt, such as there has never been before or ever will be again. 
I do not ask you to take them out of the world, but I do ask you to keep them safe from the Evil One.  
Then the king of Moab, Balak son of Zippor, fought against you. He sent word to Balaam son of Beor and asked him to put a curse on you. 
he will join all his ancestors in death, : where the darkness lasts for ever. 
He said this and showed them his hands and his feet.  
or get in each other's way. : They swarm through defences, : and nothing can stop them. 
The LORD solemnly promised your ancestors to give you the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. When he brings you into that rich and fertile land, you must celebrate this festival in the first month of every year. 
The LORD is king; : and the people tremble. : He is enthroned above the winged creatures : and the earth shakes. 
The LORD Almighty is with us; : the God of Jacob is our refuge.
The LORD gave Moses and Aaron these regulations. 
This is what the Sovereign LORD says: “These foolish prophets are doomed! They provide their own inspiration and invent their own visions. 
Emperor of Assyria, your governors are dead, and your noblemen are asleep for ever! Your people are scattered on the mountains, and there is no one to bring them home again. 
and also shields and spears. In this way he kept Judah and Benjamin under his control. 
But if you cannot restrain your desires, go ahead and marry — it is better to marry than to burn with passion. 
Don't deliberately torture yourself by giving in to depression. 
Not far away there was a large herd of pigs feeding. 
He answered, “Please ask King Solomon — I know he won't refuse you — to let me have Abishag, the woman from Shunem, as my wife.” 
The rest of the Israelites shall set up camp, company by company, each man with his own group and under his own banner. 
The other disciples came to shore in the boat, pulling the net full of fish. They were not very far from land, about a hundred metres away. 
Can you rely on his great strength : and expect him to do your heavy work? 
So far as the Law is concerned, however, I am dead — killed by the Law itself — in order that I might live for God. I have been put to death with Christ on his cross, 
as you offer them the message of life. If you do so, I shall have reason to be proud of you on the Day of Christ, because it will show that all my effort and work have not been wasted. 
May he give you what you desire : and make all your plans succeed. 
And I heard every creature in heaven, on earth, in the world below, and in the sea — all living beings in the universe — and they were singing: : “To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb, : be praise and honour, glory and might, : for ever and ever!” 
Get rid of a conceited person, and then there will be no more arguments, quarrelling, or calling of names. 
Every righteous person will be rewarded; everyone will get what he deserves. 
Celebrate this festival at the appointed time each year. 
Locusts: they have no king, but they move in formation. 
Save us, LORD, save us! : Give us success, O LORD! 
Some Pharisees asked, “Why are you doing what our Law says you cannot do on the Sabbath?” 
God has handed me over to evil people. 
The instructions which David had given the priests and the Levites concerning the storehouses and other matters were carried out in detail. 
and the posts, bases, pegs, and ropes of the court round the Tent, with all the fittings used in setting them up. Each man will be responsible for carrying specific items. 
How can I forgive those who use false scales and weights? 
So then, the eye cannot say to the hand, “I don't need you!” Nor can the head say to the feet, “Well, I don't need you!” 
The Pharisee was surprised when he noticed that Jesus had not washed before eating. 
I look into the future, : And I see the nation of Israel. : A king, like a bright star, will arise in that nation. : Like a comet he will come from Israel. : He will strike the leaders of Moab : And beat down all the people of Seth. 
Through him God gave me the privilege of being an apostle for the sake of Christ, in order to lead people of all nations to believe and obey. 
That is why I wrote that letter to you — I did not want to come to you and be made sad by the very people who should make me glad. For I am convinced that when I am happy, then all of you are happy too. 
They were given the responsibility of taking care of the Tent of the LORD's presence and the Temple, and of assisting their relatives, the priests descended from Aaron, in the temple worship.
I was then given a stick that looked like a measuring rod, and was told, “Go and measure the temple of God and the altar, and count those who are worshipping in the temple. 
The people of Israel said to Moses, “Then that's the end of us! 
I will bring on them everlasting shame and disgrace that will never be forgotten.”
The LORD had no more concern for them; he scattered them himself. : He showed no regard for our priests and leaders. 
Our enemies thought we would not see them or know what was happening until they were already upon us, killing us and putting an end to our work. 
No one who lives in our land will ever again complain of being ill, and all sins will be forgiven.
In this way both of Lot's daughters became pregnant by their own father. 
His enemies will never succeed against him; : the wicked will not defeat him. 
“Do not eat any animal that dies a natural death. You may let the foreigners who live among you eat it, or you may sell it to other foreigners. But you belong to the LORD your God; you are his people. : “Do not cook a young sheep or goat in its mother's milk. 
I will bring war, starvation, and disease on them until there is not one of them left in the land that I gave to them and their ancestors.”
The families of the clan of Gershon were assigned the following towns, with the surrounding pasture lands: : In the territory of East Manasseh: Golan in Bashan, and Ashtaroth. 
But I could not find that he had done anything for which he deserved the death sentence. And since he himself made an appeal to the Emperor, I have decided to send him. 
It was human pride that brought them into the world, and that is why a quick end has been planned for them. 
They will keep you away from other men's wives, from women with seductive words. 
God sent his angel to shut the mouths of the lions so that they would not hurt me. He did this because he knew that I was innocent and because I have not wronged you, Your Majesty.” 
We also boast of our troubles, because we know that trouble produces endurance, 
Aaron is to wear it on his forehead, so that I, the LORD, will accept all the offerings that the Israelites dedicate to me, even if the people commit some error in offering them. 
The priests are like a gang of robbers who wait in ambush for someone. Even on the road to the holy place at Shechem they commit murder. And they do all this evil deliberately! 
Devout people, however, cannot be overcome by slander; they cannot be burnt by its flames. 
While we were with you, we used to say to you, “Whoever refuses to work is not allowed to eat.” 
“When you hold back the rain because your people have sinned against you and then when they repent and face this Temple, humbly praying to you, 
I was depressed and ill for several days. Then I got up and went back to the work that the king had assigned to me, but I was puzzled by the vision and could not understand it.
It is no use for them to worship me, :   because they teach human rules :   as though they were God's laws!’ 
For it is people of whom the Lord thinks well who are really approved, not people who think well of themselves.
Your fasting makes you violent, and you quarrel and fight. Do you think this kind of fasting will make me listen to your prayers? 
Uzzi had one son, Izrahiah. Izrahiah and his four sons, Michael, Obadiah, Joel, and Isshiah, were all heads of families. 
Once more the guard reported that the messenger had reached the group but was not returning. And he added, “The leader of the group is driving his chariot like a madman, just like Jehu!” 
You will have to eat it not just for one or two days, or five, or ten, or even twenty days, 
They are crippled and far from home, but I will make a new beginning with those who are left, and they will become a great nation. I will rule over them on Mount Zion from that time on and for ever.” 
The following, in order of age, are David's sons who were born while he was in Hebron: : Amnon, whose mother was Ahinoam from Jezreel : Daniel, whose mother was Abigail from Carmel : Absalom, whose mother was Maacah, daughter of King Talmai of Geshur : Adonijah, whose mother was Haggith : Shephatiah, whose mother was Abital : Ithream, whose mother was Eglah 
All who pass by steal his belongings; : all his neighbours laugh at him. 
I will bring destruction on Israel and ruin on the people of Judah. 
Stupid people are given positions of authority while the rich are ignored. 
When Lamech was 182, he had a son, 
Tell the southern forest to hear what the Sovereign LORD is saying: look! I am starting a fire, and it will burn up every tree in you, whether green or dry. Nothing will be able to put it out. It will spread from south to north, and everyone will feel the heat of the flames. 
and passed north of the ridge overlooking the Jordan Valley. It then went down into the valley, 
together with the other peoples whom the great and powerful Ashurbanipal moved from their homes and settled in the city of Samaria and elsewhere in the province of West Euphrates.” 
and will teach you what the truth really is. Then when you are sent to find it out, you will bring back the right answer. 
If you hear something that makes you angry with your neighbour, ask him about it before you threaten him. Leave the matter to the Law of the Most High. 
This also includes you who are in Rome, whom God has called to belong to Jesus Christ. 
But you are always the same, : and your life never ends. 
The heads of the Levite families, however, were recorded in the official records only until the time of Jonathan, the grandson of Eliashib. 
Put fifty loops on the edge of the last piece of one set, and fifty loops on the edge of the other set. 
He was the father of seven sons and three daughters. 
Get up tomorrow morning at sunrise and make a sudden attack on the city. Then when Gaal and his men come out against you, hit them as hard as you can!” 
So when I came to you, I was weak and trembled all over with fear, 
The next day he took out two silver coins and gave them to the innkeeper. ‘Take care of him,’ he told the innkeeper, ‘and when I come back this way, I will pay you whatever else you spend on him.’ ” 
“Whose tomb is that?” he asked. : The people of Bethel answered, “It is the tomb of the prophet who came from Judah and predicted these things that you have done to this altar.” 
Be honest and you will be safe. If you are dishonest, you will suddenly fall. 
So they travelled right on through Mysia and went to Troas. 
My God, rescue me from the wicked, : from the power of those who are cruel and evil. 
Then he said to the disciples, “The time will come when you will wish you could see one of the days of the Son of Man, but you will not see it.  
Here and now I challenge the Israelite army. I dare you to pick someone to fight me!” 
The wicked will have to suffer, : but those who trust in the LORD : are protected by his constant love. 
You have done many things for us, O LORD our God; : there is no one like you! : You have made many wonderful plans for us. : I could never speak of them all — : their number is so great! 
Happy is the person whose sins the Lord will not keep account of!” 
During my brief earthly life : I compose songs about your commands. 
They made him so bitter : that he spoke without stopping to think. 
I will hand over King Hophra of Egypt to his enemies who want to kill him, just as I handed over King Zedekiah of Judah to King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia, who was his enemy and wanted to kill him.”
“All right,” Raphael said, “I'll wait, but don't take too long.” 
When the oppressed see this, they will be glad; : those who worship God will be encouraged. 
and by your power we defeat our enemies. 
Be considerate of the other people at the table and treat them the way you want to be treated. 
Then they left Hazeroth and set up camp in the wilderness of Paran.
They took a quick look round but did not see anyone else; only Jesus was with them. 
The Lord, who made it, is great; : it speeds on its way at his command. 
Anything you say to the wise will make them wiser. Whatever you tell the righteous will add to their knowledge. 
He also made the sacred anointing oil and the pure sweet-smelling incense, mixed like perfume.
All the work on the Tent of the LORD's presence was finally completed. The Israelites made everything just as the LORD had commanded Moses. 
The stars fought from the sky; : as they moved across the sky, : they fought against Sisera. 
Kore son of Imnah, a Levite who was chief guard at the East Gate of the Temple, was in charge of receiving the gifts offered to the LORD and of distributing them. 
Wealth that has been obtained dishonestly is like a stream that runs full during a thunderstorm, 
they had nothing to add when I had finished. : My words sank in like drops of rain; 
So then, Your Majesty, follow my advice. Stop sinning, do what is right, and be merciful to the poor. Then you will continue to be prosperous.” 
“The priests have the priesthood as their share of what I have given Israel to be handed down from one generation to another. They are not to hold property in Israel; I am all they need. 
I will always praise the LORD; : let all his creatures praise his holy name for ever.
There we found some believers and stayed with them a week. By the power of the Spirit they told Paul not to go to Jerusalem. 
Everything that will not burn, such as gold, silver, bronze, iron, tin, or lead, is to be purified by passing it through fire. Everything else is to be purified by the water for purification. 
Despair is coming. You will look for peace and never find it. 
Then they began to salute him: “Long live the King of the Jews!” 
but I am not guilty of any violence, : and my prayer to God is sincere. 
We have a great priest in charge of the house of God. 
This will happen to them because they did not obey the message that I kept on sending to them through my servants the prophets. They refused to listen. 
At that time a Jew named Apollos, who had been born in Alexandria, came to Ephesus. He was an eloquent speaker and had a thorough knowledge of the Scriptures. 
However, if the one who is not a believer wishes to leave the Christian partner, let it be so. In such cases the Christian partner, whether husband or wife, is free to act. God has called you to live in peace. 
Some time later King David attacked the Philistines again and defeated them. He took out of their control the city of Gath and its surrounding villages. 
The same God who created me : created my servants also. 
in the eighteenth year of Josiah's reign. 
“But you are free to kill and eat your animals wherever you live. You may eat as many as the LORD gives you. All of you, whether ritually clean or unclean, may eat them, just as you would eat the meat of deer or antelope. 
Moses said to the people, “This is how you will know that the LORD has sent me to do all these things and that it is not by my own choice that I have done them. 
Treat him as a brother; you need him as you need yourself. If you ill-treat him and he runs away, where are you going to look for him?
Elisha had told the king that by that time the following day three kilogrammes of the best wheat or six kilogrammes of barley would be sold in Samaria for one piece of silver, 
He alone protects and saves me; : he is my defender, : and I shall never be defeated. 
If you repeat secrets that have been told to you, you are destroying the confidence others have in you, and you will never have a close friend. 
if it is greenish or reddish, it is a spreading mildew and must be shown to the priest. 
They made fifty bronze hooks to join the two sets, so as to form one cover. 
Then I prayed, “Almighty LORD, you are a just judge; you test people's thoughts and feelings. I have placed my cause in your hands; so let me watch you take revenge on these people.” 
Leah answered, “Isn't it enough that you have taken away my husband? Now you are even trying to take away my son's mandrakes.” : Rachel said, “If you will give me your son's mandrakes, you can sleep with Jacob tonight.” 
All its fat shall be removed and offered on the altar: the fat tail, the fat covering the internal organs, 
Instead, you laughed and celebrated. You killed sheep and cattle to eat, and you drank wine. You said, “We might as well eat and drink! Tomorrow we'll be dead.” 
I will give them a single purpose in life: to honour me for all time, for their own good and the good of their descendants. 
The Syrian king became greatly upset over this; he called in his officers and asked them, “Which one of you is on the side of the king of Israel?” 
I have forgotten what health and peace and happiness are. 
He gave them only a limited time to live, : but he gave them authority over everything on earth. 
But if the sore spreads after he has been pronounced clean, 
You make wise plans and do mighty things; you see everything that people do, and you reward them according to their actions. 
The Babylonian army had been besieging Jerusalem, but when they heard that the Egyptian army had crossed the Egyptian border, they retreated. 
The leaders of Israel prayed earnestly to God and fasted. 
Prepare the nations for war against Babylonia. Send for the kings of Media, their leaders and officials, and the armies of all the countries they control. 
The sons of Japheth — Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras — were the ancestors of the peoples who bear their names. 
God's anger is revealed from heaven against all the sin and evil of the people whose evil ways prevent the truth from being known. 
One day Jesus got into a boat with his disciples and said to them, “Let us go across to the other side of the lake.” So they started out. 
So he prayed, “LORD, didn't I say before I left home that this is just what you would do? That's why I did my best to run away to Spain! I knew that you are a loving and merciful God, always patient, always kind, and always ready to change your mind and not punish. 
The LORD commanded Moses and Aaron: “Tell the Israelites and the king of Egypt that I have ordered you to lead the Israelites out of Egypt.” 
I was like a father to the poor : and took the side of strangers in trouble. 
I will bless you, because Abraham obeyed me and kept all my laws and commands.” 
The Lord himself created Wisdom; : he saw her and recognized her value, : and so he filled everything he made with Wisdom. 
Your life in Christ makes you strong, and his love comforts you. You have fellowship with the Spirit, and you have kindness and compassion for one another. 
So they sent a warning to the whole region of Samaria and to the towns of Kona, Beth Horon, Belmain, Jericho, Choba, and Aesora, and to the Valley of Salem. 
You will then be near the land of the Ammonites, the descendants of Lot. Don't trouble them or start a war against them, because I am not going to give you any of the land that I have given them.’ ” 
This, then, was how Naomi came back from Moab with Ruth, her Moabite daughter-in-law. The barley harvest was just beginning when they arrived in Bethlehem.
As Jesus taught in the Temple, he said in a loud voice, “Do you really know me and know where I am from? I have not come on my own authority. He who sent me, however, is truthful. You do not know him,  
“Do not let the clan of Kohath 
because he comes to rule the earth. : He will rule the peoples of the world : with justice and fairness.
Although their ambassadors have already arrived at the Egyptian cities of Zoan and Hanes, 
Then Jehoiada took a box, made a hole in the lid, and placed the box by the altar, on the right side as one enters the Temple. The priests on duty at the entrance put in the box all the money given by the worshippers. 
Then I will tell my servant to go and find them. And if I tell him, ‘Look, the arrows are on this side of you; get them,’ that means that you are safe and can come out. I swear by the living LORD that you will be in no danger. 
“This is the prophet Jesus, from Nazareth in Galilee,” the crowds answered. 
For the scripture says: : “I chose a valuable stone, : which I am placing as the cornerstone in Zion; : and whoever believes in him will never be disappointed.” 
The LORD loves his people : and protects those who belong to him. : So we bow at his feet : and obey his commands. 
He made my words as sharp as a sword. : With his own hand he protected me. : He made me like an arrow, : sharp and ready for use. 
Your pride has deceived you. No one fears you as much as you think they do. You live on the rocky cliffs, high on top of the mountain; but even though you live as high up as an eagle, the LORD will bring you down. The LORD has spoken.” 
The heathen have dug a pit and fallen in; : they have been caught in their own trap. 
Then get one of your highest noblemen to dress the man in these robes and lead him, mounted on the horse, through the city square. Let the nobleman announce as they go: ‘See how the king rewards a person he wishes to honour!’ ” 
For the yoke I will give you is easy, and the load I will put on you is light.”
This is what I gave them: : silver — 22 tonnes : 100 silver utensils — seventy kilogrammes : gold — 3.4 tonnes : twenty gold bowls — 8.4 kilogrammes : two fine bronze bowls, equal in value to gold bowls 
Abraham died at the ripe old age of 175. 
“At the end of every seventh year you are to cancel the debts of those who owe you money. 
I will offer sheep to be burnt on the altar; : I will sacrifice bulls and goats, : and the smoke will go up to the sky. 
His hair was very thick, and he had to cut it once a year, when it grew too long and heavy. It would weigh more than two kilogrammes according to the royal standard of weights. 
The priests did not ask, ‘Where is the LORD?’ : My own priests did not know me. : The rulers rebelled against me; : the prophets spoke in the name of Baal : and worshipped useless idols. 
Do not let others have their way at your expense; do not bring on your own ruin by giving up your rights. 
At the Year of Restoration the field shall be returned to the original owner or to his descendants. 
The crowds were all amazed at what Jesus had done. “Could he be the Son of David?” they asked. 
“In the heat of their anger they murdered their rulers. Their kings have been assassinated one after another, but no one prays to me for help.” 
They did not keep thinking about the country they had left; if they had, they would have had the chance to return. 
Pray to God that you will not have to run away during the winter or on a Sabbath!  
Sensible people keep quiet about what they know, but stupid people advertise their ignorance. 
They shall put on it all the equipment used in the service at the altar: firepans, hooks, shovels, and basins. Then they shall put a fine leather cover over it and insert the carrying poles. 
Wisdom offers you long life, as well as wealth and honour. 
Then Joseph said to them, “Please come closer.” They did, and he said, “I am your brother Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt. 
These are the descendants of Asher. He had four sons: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, and Beriah; and one daughter, Serah. 
When the king of Egypt was told that the people had escaped, he and his officials changed their minds and said, “What have we done? We have let the Israelites escape, and we have lost them as our slaves!” 
Above him were written these words: “This is the King of the Jews.” 
Jacob deceived Laban by not letting him know that he was leaving. 
In Samaria he came to a town named Sychar, which was not far from the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph. 
The Egyptians urged the people to hurry and leave the country; they said, “We will all be dead if you don't leave.” 
Our people will be your slaves, and you may use our towns as you please.” 
A certain young man, dressed only in a linen cloth, was following Jesus. They tried to arrest him, 
It was concerning this salvation that the prophets made careful search and investigation, and they prophesied about this gift which God would give you. 
Those who think highly of a certain day do so in honour of the Lord; those who will eat anything do so in honour of the Lord, because they give thanks to God for the food. Those who refuse to eat certain things do so in honour of the Lord, and they give thanks to God. 
How can you say to your brother, ‘Please, brother, let me take that speck out of your eye,’ yet cannot even see the log in your own eye? You hypocrite! First take the log out of your own eye, and then you will be able to see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye. 
Those priests belonging to the tribe of Levi who are descended from Zadok are the only ones who are to come into my presence to serve me. I, the Sovereign LORD, command this. You will give them a young bull to offer as a sacrifice for sin. 
When Jared was 162, he had a son, Enoch, 
and saves me from my foes. : O LORD, you give me victory over my enemies : and protect me from violent men. 
So he answered the king,
The child grew and became strong; he was full of wisdom, and God's blessings were upon him. 
Paul and Barnabas spent some time in Antioch, and together with many others they taught and preached the word of the Lord. 
And so, Amaziah, the LORD says to you, ‘Your wife will become a prostitute on the streets, and your children will be killed in war. Your land will be divided up and given to others, and you yourself will die in a heathen country. And the people of Israel will certainly be taken away from their own land into exile.’ ”
Some soldiers also asked him, “What about us? What are we to do?” : He said to them, “Don't take money from anyone by force or accuse anyone falsely. Be content with your pay.” 
and the LORD said to him, “Go to the people and tell them to spend today and tomorrow purifying themselves for worship. They must wash their clothes 
They worship me every day, claiming that they are eager to know my ways and obey my laws. They say they want me to give them just laws and that they take pleasure in worshipping me.” 
This is to be done so that they can offer sacrifices that are acceptable to the God of Heaven and pray for his blessing on me and my sons. 
But Jesus saw through their trick and answered, “Why are you trying to trap me? Bring a silver coin, and let me see it.” 
You make judgements in a purely human way; I pass judgement on no one.  
But by the 23rd year of Joash's reign the priests still had not made any repairs to the Temple. 
The entrance room faced the outer courtyard. Palm trees were carved on the walls along the passage. Eight steps led up to this gate. 
Then they told him this story: “We have come from a very distant land, sir, because we have heard of the LORD your God. We have heard about everything that he did in Egypt 
Their father said to them, “Do you want to make me lose all my children? Joseph is gone; Simeon is gone; and now you want to take away Benjamin. I am the one who suffers!” 
The man said to me, “Both these buildings are holy. In them the priests who enter the LORD's presence eat the holiest offerings. Because the rooms are holy, the priests will place the holiest offerings there: the grain offerings and the sacrifices offered for sin or as repayment offerings. 
They will no longer eat meat with blood in it, or other forbidden food. All the survivors will become part of my people and be like a clan in the tribe of Judah. Ekron will become part of my people, as the Jebusites did. 
Now, since our message is that Christ has been raised from death, how can some of you say that the dead will not be raised to life? 
“People of Israel, be sure that you do everything that the LORD your God has commanded you. Do not disobey any of his laws. 
and not by clans. They gave a share to all males thirty years of age or older who had daily responsibilities in the Temple in accordance with their positions. 
And the Father, who sent me, also testifies on my behalf. You have never heard his voice or seen his face,  
But my men did not kill the best sheep and cattle that they captured; instead, they brought them here to Gilgal to offer as a sacrifice to the LORD your God.” 
Never give a hungry person any cause for resentment or anger. 
He feels only the pain of his own body : and the grief of his own mind.
But at another point, when surrounded by water, the flames burned more fiercely than fire had ever burned before, and so destroyed the crops on the land where those unrighteous people lived. 
O God, when you led your people, : when you marched across the desert, 
On the eighth day they shall bring two doves or two pigeons to the priest at the entrance of the Tent of the LORD's presence. 
Everything else that Zimri did, including the account of his conspiracy, is recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel. 
You have been living an easy life, free from worries; but now, tremble with fear! Strip off your clothes and tie rags round your waist. 
I have learnt that everything has limits; : but your commandment is perfect. 
yet their message goes out to all the world : and is heard to the ends of the earth. : God made a home in the sky for the sun; 
Ziph, Telem, Bealoth, 
If only he would go ahead and kill me! 
The LORD will give the people of Israel relief from their pain and suffering, and from the hard work they were forced to do. 
The Spirit took control of me, and the angel carried me to the top of a very high mountain. He showed me Jerusalem, the Holy City, coming down out of heaven from God 
The LORD said to me concerning the drought, 
Each frame is to be four metres long and 66 centimetres wide, 
Our help comes from the LORD, : who made heaven and earth.
But concerning Israel he says, “All day long I held out my hands to welcome a disobedient and rebellious people.”
The water returned and covered the chariots, the drivers, and all the Egyptian army that had followed the Israelites into the sea; not one of them was left. 
It was you who brought me safely through birth, : and when I was a baby, you kept me safe. 
He sends the wind in front of him like a flood that carries everything away. It sweeps nations to destruction and puts an end to their evil plans. 
Every kind of bird built nests in its branches; : The wild animals bore their young in its shelter; : The nations of the world rested in its shade. 
Happy are those who obey the LORD, : who live by his commands. 
He gave him the second royal chariot to ride in, and his guard of honour went ahead of him and cried out, “Make way! Make way!” And so Joseph was appointed governor over all Egypt. 
“When the end of those kingdoms is near and they have become so wicked that they must be punished, there will be a stubborn, vicious, and deceitful king. 
I sent Assyria to attack a godless nation, people who have made me angry. I sent them to loot and steal and trample on the people like dirt in the streets.” 
When the Pharisees saw this, they said to Jesus, “Look, it is against our Law for your disciples to do this on the Sabbath!” 
but Nadab and Abihu were killed when they offered unholy fire to the LORD in the Sinai Desert. They had no children, so Eleazar and Ithamar served as priests during Aaron's lifetime. 
I will give it to those who oppressed you, : to those who made you lie down in the streets : and trampled on you as if you were dirt.”
Then the LORD spoke to me again. He said, 
Rachel said, “God has judged in my favour. He has heard my prayer and has given me a son”; so she named him Dan.  
He asked who I was, and I told him that I was an Amalekite. 
When I look at the sky, which you have made, : at the moon and the stars, which you set in their places — 
even if you gave me all the silver and gold in your palace, I could not disobey the command of the LORD by doing anything of myself. I will say only what the LORD tells me to say.” 
Raphael said, “Tobias, my friend.” : “Yes, what is it?” Tobias asked. : Raphael continued, “Tonight we will stay at the home of your relative Raguel. He has only one child, a daughter named Sarah, 
Take your shield and armour : and come to my rescue. 
The prince must leave the entrance room of the gateway and go out by the same way as he went in. 
To them you are nothing more than an entertainer singing love songs or playing a harp. They listen to all your words and don't obey a single one of them. 
Remeth, Engannim, Enhaddah, and Bethpazzez. 
At once Jesus made his disciples get into the boat and go ahead of him to Bethsaida, on the other side of the lake, while he sent the crowd away. 
Isaac said to Jacob, “Please come closer so that I can touch you. Are you really Esau?” 
Welcome those who are weak in faith, but do not argue with them about their personal opinions. 
And Jesus concluded, “Many are invited, but few are chosen.” 
But his hair started growing again. 
So Moses gave the wagons and the oxen to the Levites. 
Happy is the person who is generous with his loans, : who runs his business honestly. 
He sends disease before him : and commands death to follow him. 
so he said to them, “Bring me the burnt sacrifices and the fellowship sacrifices.” He offered a burnt sacrifice, 
An argument broke out among the disciples as to which one of them should be thought of as the greatest. 
Then Uzziah said to them, “Don't give up, my friends! Let's wait five more days to see if the Lord our God will be merciful to us. Surely he will not abandon us completely. 
Please do me this favour, and keep the sacred promise you made to me. But if I'm guilty, kill me yourself! Why take me to your father to be killed?” 
So tell them that I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying: there will be no more delay. What I have said will be done. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken!”
When the two angels came to Sodom that evening, Lot was sitting at the city gate. As soon as he saw them, he got up and went to meet them. He bowed down before them 
rushing into the desert. : When she is on heat, who can control her? : No male that wants her has to trouble himself; : she is always available at mating time. 
It will make you miserable and drunk, : that cup of fear and ruin, : your sister Samaria's cup. 
(That is why even today the priests of Dagon and all his worshippers in Ashdod step over that place and do not walk on it.) 
So then, tear down their altars, break their sacred stone pillars in pieces, cut down the symbols of their goddess Asherah, and burn their idols. 
We do not build houses for homes — we live in tents — and we own no vineyards, fields, or corn. We have fully obeyed everything that our ancestor Jonadab commanded us. 
Then Samson became very thirsty, so he called to the LORD and said, “You gave me this great victory; am I now going to die of thirst and be captured by these heathen Philistines?” 
you are to choose cities of refuge to which a man can escape if he kills someone accidentally. 
Then the priests shouted and blew their trumpets of hammered silver. They made a loud noise that the Most High would hear. 
So Ahab replied to Benhadad's messengers, “Tell my lord the king that I agreed to his first demand, but I cannot agree to the second.” : The messengers left and then returned with another message 
Taking care of the poor is the kind of offering that pleases God in heaven. Do this, and you will be kept safe from the dark world of the dead. 
God also made the men of Shechem suffer for their wickedness, just as Jotham, Gideon's son, said they would when he cursed them.
The LORD said to me, “Put them in the temple treasury.” So I took the thirty pieces of silver — the magnificent sum they thought I was worth — and put them in the temple treasury. 
You, too, are built upon the foundation laid by the apostles and prophets, the cornerstone being Christ Jesus himself. 
Bezalel made the Covenant Box out of acacia wood, 110 centimetres long, 66 centimetres wide, and 66 centimetres high. 
Greetings to Apelles, whose loyalty to Christ has been proved. Greetings to those who belong to the family of Aristobulus. 
Your Majesty, if this city is rebuilt and its walls are completed, the people will stop paying taxes, and your royal revenues will decrease. 
“Yet my people and I cannot really give you anything, because everything is a gift from you, and we have only given back what is yours already. 
“It's treason, Ahaziah!” Joram cried out, as he turned his chariot round and fled. 
Praise the LORD in Zion, : in Jerusalem, his home. : Praise the LORD!
And so the LORD became furious with Israel and let raiders attack and rob them. He let enemies all around overpower them, and the Israelites could no longer protect themselves. 
The angel raised both hands towards the sky and made a solemn promise in the name of the Eternal God. I heard him say, “It will be 3.5 years. When the persecution of God's people ends, all these things will have happened.” 
It is better to be poor, but strong and healthy, than to be rich, but in poor health. 
Nebo — 52 
Our enemies heard that we had found out what they were plotting, and they realized that God had defeated their plans. Then all of us went back to rebuilding the wall. 
You love to hurt people with your words, you liar! 
the Hivites, the Arkites, the Sinites, 
The day of the LORD is coming — that cruel day of his fierce anger and fury. The earth will be made a wilderness, and every sinner will be destroyed. 
Bethpeor, the slopes of Mount Pisgah, and Beth Jeshimoth. 
the raging torrent would have drowned us.” 
David captured 1,700 of his horsemen and 20,000 of his foot soldiers. He kept enough horses for a hundred chariots and crippled all the rest. 
They know that God's law says that people who live in this way deserve death. Yet, not only do they continue to do these very things, but they even approve of others who do them.
I will climb my watchtower and wait to see what the LORD will tell me to say and what answer he will give to my complaint. 
Because of all the things you do that I hate, I will punish Jerusalem as I have never done before and will never do again. 
But cowards, traitors, perverts, murderers, the immoral, those who practise magic, those who worship idols, and all liars — the place for them is the lake burning with fire and sulphur, which is the second death.” 
“I heard a cry of terror, : a cry of fear and not of peace. 
You have tired the LORD out with your talk. But you ask, “How have we tired him?” By saying, “The LORD Almighty thinks all evildoers are good; in fact he likes them.” Or by asking, “Where is the God who is supposed to be just?”
He called for Tobias and vowed that he would not let him leave for two weeks. “Stay, and we will eat and drink together,” he said. “It will do my daughter good after her terrible suffering. 
And do not make God's Holy Spirit sad; for the Spirit is God's mark of ownership on you, a guarantee that the Day will come when God will set you free. 
The people had given willingly to the LORD, and they were happy that so much had been given. King David also was extremely happy. 
Everyone who is holy has learnt to stay away from deceitful people. He will not stay around when foolish thoughts are being expressed; he will not feel comfortable when injustice is done. 
By making treaties, he will deceive other nations, and he will grow stronger and stronger, even though he rules only a small nation. 
“Why should I help you?” Elisha said to the king of Israel. “Go and consult those prophets that your father and mother consulted.” : “No!” Joram replied. “It is the LORD who has put us three kings at the mercy of the king of Moab.” 
I hope to see you soon, and then we will talk personally. 
The visions I saw alarmed me, and I was deeply disturbed.  
King Jehoiakim, however, sent Elnathan son of Achbor and some other men to Egypt to get Uriah. 
You created Adam and gave him his wife Eve : to be his helper and support. : They became the parents of the whole human race. : You said, ‘It is not good for man to live alone. : I will make a suitable helper for him.’ 
Stand firm, and you will save yourselves. 
My life is like the evening shadows; : I am like dry grass. 
O Earth, don't hide the wrongs done to me! : Don't let my call for justice be silenced! 
For somewhere in the Scriptures this is said about the seventh day: “God rested on the seventh day from all his work.” 
You ask, “Where are the houses of great people now, : those who practised evil?” 
Nations are terrified, kingdoms are shaken; : God thunders, and the earth dissolves. 
how our ancestors went to Egypt, where we lived many years. The Egyptians ill-treated our ancestors and us, 
It is different when I speak with my servant Moses; I have put him in charge of all my people Israel.  
He shall bring it to the priest, who will take a handful of it as a token that it has all been offered to the LORD, and he will burn it on the altar as a food offering. It is an offering to take away sin. 
Now, you, my brothers and sisters, are God's children as a result of his promise, just as Isaac was. 
They will greet you and offer you two of the loaves, which you are to accept. 
But now suppose you hurt his body — he will curse you to your face!” 
You have taken the people of Judah and Jerusalem far from their own country and sold them to the Greeks. 
Jesus said, “There were ten men who were healed; where are the other nine?  
Let us celebrate our Passover, then, not with bread having the old yeast of sin and wickedness, but with the bread that has no yeast, the bread of purity and truth. 
Suddenly Absalom met some of David's men. Absalom was riding a mule, and as it went under a large oak tree, Absalom's head got caught in the branches. The mule ran on and Absalom was left hanging in mid air. 
I held back the rain when your crops needed it most. I sent rain on one city, but not on another. Rain fell on one field, but another field dried up. 
I am surrounded by enemies, : who are like lions hungry for human flesh. : Their teeth are like spears and arrows; : their tongues are like sharp swords. 
But they left and spread the news about Jesus all over that part of the country. 
When anyone offers one of his cattle as a fellowship offering, it is to be a bull or a cow without any defects. 
“That seemed a good thing to do, so I selected twelve men, one from each tribe. 
On the fourth day they said to Samson's wife, “Trick your husband into telling us what the riddle means. If you don't, we'll set fire to your father's house and burn you with it. You two invited us so that you could rob us, didn't you?” 
So he became even more afraid of David and was his enemy as long as he lived. 
He destroyed the living quarters in the Temple occupied by the temple prostitutes. (It was there that women wove robes used in the worship of Asherah.) 
I see everything they do. Nothing is hidden from me; their sins do not escape my sight. 
Instead, I will drive them out little by little, until there are enough of you to take possession of the land. 
Their ancestors did not listen to me or pay any attention. Instead, they became stubborn; they would not obey me or learn from me. 
Remember how the LORD your God led you on this long journey through the desert these past forty years, sending hardships to test you, so that he might know what you intended to do and whether you would obey his commands. 
Then Joshua said, “Open the entrance to the cave and bring those five kings out to me.” 
What about you? You call yourself a Jew; you depend on the Law and boast about God; 
On the feast days and at the festivals the grain offering will be 17.5 litres with each bull or ram, and whatever the worshipper wants to give with each lamb. Three litres of olive oil are to be offered with each such grain offering. 
The LORD says, : “I love justice and I hate oppression and crime. : I will faithfully reward my people : And make an eternal covenant with them. 
So the Israelites got rid of their idols of Baal and Astarte, and worshipped only the LORD. 
but their descendants, the Israelites, had many children and became so numerous and strong that Egypt was filled with them. 
and it will be a square, measuring 2,250 metres on each side. 
Then the LORD commanded Isaiah 
“But I tell you who hear me: love your enemies, do good to those who hate you,  
I told them not to have the gates of Jerusalem opened in the morning until well after sunrise and to have them closed and barred before the guards went off duty at sunset. I also told them to appoint guards from among the people who lived in Jerusalem and to assign some of them to specific posts and others to patrol the area round their own houses. 
I told you to let my son go, so that he might worship me, but you refused. Now I am going to kill your firstborn son.’ ” 
As he came up to kiss him, Isaac smelt his clothes — so he gave him his blessing. He said, “The pleasant smell of my son is like the smell of a field which the LORD has blessed. 
They will not remain rich for long; : nothing they own will last. : Even their shadows will vanish, 
Then Amaziah sent messengers to King Jehoash of Israel, challenging him to fight.  
The odour of the sacrifice pleased the LORD, and he said to himself, “Never again will I put the earth under a curse because of what people do; I know that from the time they are young their thoughts are evil. Never again will I destroy all living beings, as I have done this time. 
when the Covenant Box of the Lord of all the earth crosses the Jordan ahead of you. 
The leader among Gershom's sons was Shebuel. 
It took forty days, the normal time for embalming. The Egyptians mourned for him seventy days. 
One and the same Spirit gives faith to one person, while to another person he gives the power to heal. 
They assigned a hundred men to escort Judith and her slave to the headquarters of Holofernes. 
You have made us the refuse heap of the world. 
Shake yourself free, Jerusalem! : Rise from the dust and sit on your throne! : Undo the chains that bind you, : captive people of Zion! 
But please remember me when everything is going well for you, and please be kind enough to mention me to the king and help me to get out of this prison. 
When we arrived in Jerusalem, the believers welcomed us warmly. 
“Happy are you when people hate you, reject you, insult you, and say that you are evil, all because of the Son of Man!  
Then you will be able to live as the Lord wants and will always do what pleases him. Your lives will produce all kinds of good deeds, and you will grow in your knowledge of God. 
All the gold that had been dedicated to the LORD for the sacred Tent weighed one tonne, weighed according to the official standard. 
Many people from the province of Judea and the city of Jerusalem went out to hear John. They confessed their sins, and he baptized them in the River Jordan. 
But I am no longer a human being; I am a worm, : despised and scorned by everyone! 
I will leave only a bare rock where fishermen can dry their nets. The city will never be rebuilt. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken.” 
In the eighth month, the month of Bul, in the eleventh year of Solomon's reign, the Temple was completely finished exactly as it had been planned. It had taken Solomon seven years to build it.
“Prophets, your day is almost over; the sun is going down on you. Because you mislead my people, you will have no more prophetic visions, and you will not be able to predict anything.” 
Guilty people walk a crooked path; the innocent do what is right. 
Was there any prophet that your ancestors did not persecute? They killed God's messengers, who long ago announced the coming of his righteous Servant. And now you have betrayed and murdered him. 
It will be as it was in the time of Lot. Everybody kept on eating and drinking, buying and selling, planting and building.  
He shall dip his finger in the blood and sprinkle it in front of the sacred curtain seven times. 
and said, “We are unclean because we have touched a corpse, but why should we be excluded from presenting the LORD's offering with the rest of the Israelites?” 
As the scripture says, “God made their minds and hearts dull; to this very day they cannot see or hear.” 
Listen to my account of the wonders and miracles which the Supreme God has shown me. 
I am now taking the Levites instead of all the firstborn of the Israelites, 
The LORD commanded Moses 
God will throw them to the ground and make them speechless. Like buildings shaken from their foundations, they will be reduced to piles of ruins. They will be in torment. People will soon forget all about them. 
You will suffer the same punishment as the people! I will punish you and make you pay for the evil you do. 
‘Heaven is my throne, says the Lord, : and the earth is my footstool. : What kind of house would you build for me? : Where is the place for me to live in? 
Precious jewels could not equal her worth; beside Wisdom all the gold in the world is a handful of sand, and silver is nothing more than clay. 
Those priests were not allowed to serve in the Temple, but they could eat the unleavened bread provided for their fellow-priests. 
Those who are blessed by the LORD will possess the land, : but those who are cursed by him will be driven out. 
poets, and composers of music, 
So David and his men continued along the road. Shimei kept up with them, walking on the hillside; he was cursing and throwing stones and earth at them as he went. 
Some men heard what David had said, and they told Saul, who sent for him. 
Pilate wrote a notice and had it put on the cross. “Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews”, is what he wrote. 
This is what we will do. When the priests and Levites come on duty on the Sabbath, one third of them will guard the temple gates, 
Where are the kings of the cities of Hamath, Arpad, Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivvah?” 
(Curse those who do not do the LORD's work with all their heart! Curse those who do not slash and kill!) 
The whole human race will see God's salvation!’ ” 
But in the seventh month of that year, Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah and grandson of Elishama, a member of the royal family, went to Mizpah with ten men, attacked Gedaliah and killed him. He also killed the Israelites and Babylonians who were there with him. 
When she saw Peter warming himself, she looked straight at him and said, “You, too, were with Jesus of Nazareth.” 
“ ‘God's curse on anyone who moves a neighbour's boundary mark.’ : “And all the people will answer, ‘Amen!’ 
The people are saying that this land will be like a desert where neither people nor animals live, and that it will be given over to the Babylonians. But fields will once again be bought in this land. 
A person who pays any attention at all to dreams is like someone who tries to catch shadows or chase the wind. 
Soon the wicked will disappear; : you may look for them, but you won't find them; 
Jesus said this about the Spirit, which those who believed in him were going to receive. At that time the Spirit had not yet been given, because Jesus had not been raised to glory. 
He also gave these instructions to the Levites, the teachers of Israel, who were dedicated to the LORD: “Put the sacred Covenant Box in the Temple that King Solomon, the son of David, built. You are no longer to carry it from place to place, but you are to serve the LORD your God and his people Israel. 
Here is a man who lives alone. He has no son, no brother, yet he is always working, never satisfied with the wealth he has. For whom is he working so hard and denying himself any pleasure? This is useless, too — and a miserable way to live. 
the son of Amminadab, the son of Admin, the son of Arni, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah, 
Others, however, paid no attention to the LORD's warning and left their slaves and animals out in the open. 
with these instructions: “Go to the village there ahead of you. As soon as you get there, you will find a colt tied up that has never been ridden. Untie it and bring it here.  
Will he make an agreement with you : and promise to serve you for ever? 
All night long she cries; tears run down her cheeks. : Of all her former friends, not one is left to comfort her. : Her allies have betrayed her and all are now against her. 
The men of Judah asked them, “Why are you attacking us?” : They answered, “We came to take Samson prisoner and to treat him as he treated us.” 
Perhaps I can make the people of my own race jealous, and so be able to save some of them. 
Then Abimelech said to Isaac, “Leave our country. You have become more powerful than we are.” 
“Don't you know?” he asked me. : “No, I don't, sir,” I replied. 
Samuel replied, “The LORD and the king he has chosen are witnesses today that you have found me to be completely innocent.” : “Yes, the LORD is our witness,” they answered. 
the following instructions for the people of Israel: “When you enter Canaan, the land which I am giving you, the borders of your territory will be as follows. 
What I am teaching you is good, so remember it all. 
Festus said, “King Agrippa and all who are here with us: You see this man against whom all the Jewish people, both here and in Jerusalem, have brought complaints to me. They scream that he should not live any longer. 
Moses wrote God's Law in a book, taking care not to leave out anything. 
For what is mortal must be changed into what is immortal; what will die must be changed into what cannot die. 
For we are all partners with Christ if we hold firmly to the end the confidence we had at the beginning. 
When people pick grapes, they leave a few on the vines, and when robbers come at night, they take only what they want. 
Joshua called the priests and said to them, “Take the Covenant Box, and seven of you go in front of it, carrying trumpets.” 
Jonathan swore eternal friendship with David because of his deep affection for him. 
But they said to him, ‘Sir, he already has ten coins!’  
Bendeker: the cities of Makaz, Shaalbim, Beth Shemesh, Elon, and Beth Hanan 
The LORD says, “Yet even in those days I will not completely destroy my people. 
A week later the child died, and David's officials were afraid to tell him the news. They said, “While the child was living, David wouldn't answer us when we spoke to him. How can we tell him that his child is dead? He might do himself some harm!” 
Some Jews who travelled round and drove out evil spirits also tried to use the name of the Lord Jesus to do this. They said to the evil spirits, “I command you in the name of Jesus, whom Paul preaches.” 
The jailer woke up, and when he saw the prison doors open, he thought that the prisoners had escaped; so he pulled out his sword and was about to kill himself. 
Do not be surprised at this; the time is coming when all the dead will hear his voice  
I have seen it,” said John, “and I tell you that he is the Son of God.” 
For this reason the Wisdom of God said, ‘I will send them prophets and messengers; they will kill some of them and persecute others.’  
Among the descendants of Izhar, Chenaniah and his sons were assigned administrative duties: keeping records and settling disputes for the people of Israel. 
and the thin ears of corn swallowed the full ones. I told the dreams to the magicians, but none of them could explain them to me.” 
Paul said to him, “God will certainly strike you — you whitewashed wall! You sit there to judge me according to the Law, yet you break the Law by ordering them to strike me!” 
The bull and the goat used for the sin offering, whose blood was brought into the Most Holy Place to take away sin, shall be carried outside the camp and burnt. Skin, meat, and intestines shall all be burnt. 
The LORD says to such a man, “If you honour me by observing the Sabbath and if you do what pleases me and faithfully keep my covenant, 
May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all, my brothers and sisters. Amen.
This is how those things have been arranged. The priests go into the outer Tent every day to perform their duties, 
Then he came back to the disciples and found them asleep; they could not keep their eyes open. And they did not know what to say to him. 
Do not ill-treat any widow or orphan. 
Mushi had three sons: Mahli, Eder, and Jeremoth. : These are the families of the Levites. 
You must suffer for the obscene, disgusting things you have done.” The LORD has spoken. 
and the people of all the nations will be gathered before him. Then he will divide them into two groups, just as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.  
For if I pray in this way, my spirit prays indeed, but my mind has no part in it. 
Sisera was so tired that he fell sound asleep. Then Jael took a hammer and a tent peg, went up to him quietly, and killed him by driving the peg right through the side of his head and into the ground. 
The people of Edom were divided into the following tribes: Timna, Alvah, Jetheth, 
“Mortal man,” he said, “write down today's date, because this is the day that the king of Babylonia is beginning the siege of Jerusalem. 
“I am a Hebrew,” Jonah answered. “I worship the LORD, the God of heaven, who made land and sea.” 
Another group of Levites, the clan of Gershon, received from the territory of East Manasseh two cities: Golan in Bashan (one of the cities of refuge) and Beeshterah, with their pasture lands. 
Of course such rules appear to be based on wisdom in their forced worship of angels, and false humility, and severe treatment of the body; but they have no real value in controlling physical passions.
When my bones were being formed, : carefully put together in my mother's womb, : when I was growing there in secret, : you knew that I was there — 
She said to herself, “If I only touch his cloak, I will get well.” 
Meanwhile these three remain: faith, hope, and love; and the greatest of these is love.
After Jesus had gone indoors, his disciples asked him privately, “Why couldn't we drive the spirit out?” 
The towns have become a horrifying sight and are like a waterless desert, where no one lives or even travels. 
“It's true,” Achan answered. “I have sinned against the LORD, Israel's God, and this is what I did. 
Worthless, wicked people go around telling lies. 
The wicked meet their downfall and leave no descendants, but the families of the righteous live on. 
No one takes my life away from me. I give it up of my own free will. I have the right to give it up, and I have the right to take it back. This is what my Father has commanded me to do.” 
I have continued to send you all my servants the prophets, and they have told you to give up your evil ways and to do what is right. They warned you not to worship and serve other gods, so that you could go on living in the land that I gave you and your ancestors. But you would not listen to me or pay attention to me. 
But if not, may fire blaze out from Abimelech and burn up the men of Shechem and Bethmillo. May fire blaze out from the men of Shechem and Bethmillo and burn Abimelech up.” 
Never do to anyone else anything that you would not want someone to do to you. : “Do not drink so much wine that you get drunk, and do not let drinking become a habit. 
The city's wall was built on twelve foundation stones, on which were written the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. 
they couldn't stand the sight of food : and were close to death. 
“So we remained in the valley opposite the town of Bethpeor.”
As Jesus and his disciples approached Jerusalem, they came to Bethphage at the Mount of Olives. There Jesus sent two of the disciples on ahead 
In the full light of day, the rest of the world went about its business undisturbed. 
A leader should be honoured by those who follow him, and the Lord honours those who fear him. 
It is just as dangerous to sleep with another man's wife. Whoever does it will suffer. 
Saul went to Jerusalem and tried to join the disciples. But they would not believe that he was a disciple, and they were all afraid of him. 
Gather for worship on the fifteenth day of the seventh month. Celebrate this festival in honour of the LORD for seven days and do no work. 
You cannot correct servants just by talking to them. They may understand you, but they will pay no attention. 
My child, when someone dies, you should mourn. Weep and wail to show how deeply you feel the loss. Prepare the body in the proper way and be present at the burial. 
Also, if anyone eats the meat of this offering after he has touched anything ritually unclean, whether from a man or an animal, he shall no longer be considered one of God's people. 
They did not find him, so they went back to Jerusalem looking for him. 
Afterwards I went to places in Syria and Cilicia. 
Then Mephibosheth, Saul's grandson, came down to meet the king. He had not washed his feet, trimmed his beard, or washed his clothes from the time the king left Jerusalem until he returned victorious. 
And the LORD said, “If they pronounce my name as a blessing upon the people of Israel, I will bless them.”
The LORD your God will give you and your descendants obedient hearts, so that you will love him with all your heart, and you will continue to live in that land. 
But do not include younger widows in the list; because when their desires make them want to marry, they turn away from Christ, 
and died at the age of 962. 
He asked, “Do you know Laban, grandson of Nahor?” : “Yes, we do,” they answered. 
Shelomith and his family were in charge of everything that had been dedicated for use in the Temple, including the gifts brought by the prophet Samuel, by King Saul, by Abner son of Ner, and by Joab son of Zeruiah. 
A mind that thinks things through intelligently is like a firm wall, finely decorated. 
One day when Jesus was teaching, some Pharisees and teachers of the Law were sitting there who had come from every town in Galilee and Judea and from Jerusalem. The power of the Lord was present for Jesus to heal the sick. 
The LORD has commanded me not to eat or drink a thing, and not to return home the same way I came.” 
King Zedekiah sinned against the LORD, just as King Jehoiakim had done. 
This observance will be a reminder, like something tied on your hand or on your forehead; it will remind you to continue to recite and study the Law of the LORD, because the LORD brought you out of Egypt by his great power. 
Then he measured another 500 metres, and the water came up to my knees. Another 500 metres further down, the water was up to my waist. 
His appearance was like lightning, and his clothes were white as snow. 
Four men who were suffering from a dreaded skin disease were outside the gates of Samaria, and they said to one another, “Why should we wait here until we die? 
Jesus continued, “Does anyone ever bring in a lamp and put it under a bowl or under the bed? Doesn't he put it on the lampstand?  
I have come into the world as light, so that everyone who believes in me should not remain in the darkness.  
“Summon your brother Aaron and his sons, Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. Separate them from the people of Israel, so that they may serve me as priests. 
“If anyone hates someone and kills him by pushing him down or by throwing something at him 
Jesus answered, “And why do you disobey God's command and follow your own teaching?  
Then the king called for Moses and Aaron and said, “Go and offer sacrifices to your God here in this country.” 
As a result, I crumble like rotten wood, : like a moth-eaten coat.
The foolish ones took their lamps but did not take any extra oil with them,  
She rose quickly and mounted her donkey. Accompanied by her five maids, she went with David's servants and became his wife. 
The highways are so dangerous that no one travels on them. Treaties are broken and agreements are violated. No one is respected any more. 
anoint Jehu son of Nimshi as king of Israel, and anoint Elisha son of Shaphat from Abel Meholah to succeed you as prophet. 
So God will ruin you for ever; : he will take hold of you and snatch you from your home; : he will remove you from the world of the living. 
The rest of the Levites, the clan of Merari, received from the territory of Zebulun four cities: Jokneam, Kartah, 
Paul himself wanted to go before the crowd, but the believers would not let him. 
and praised gods made of gold, silver, bronze, iron, wood, and stone. 
When I bring you back to Israel, the land that I promised I would give to your ancestors, then you will know that I am the LORD. 
I heard the wings of the creatures beating together in the air, and the noise of the wheels, as loud as an earthquake. 
There was another battle with the Philistines, and Elhanan son of Jair killed Lahmi, the brother of Goliath from Gath, whose spear had a shaft as thick as the bar on a weaver's loom. 
In six days I, the LORD, made the earth, the sky, the sea, and everything in them, but on the seventh day I rested. That is why I, the LORD, blessed the Sabbath and made it holy. 
and ordered it to be taught to the people of Judah. (It is recorded in The Book of Jashar.) 
If they sell the field to someone else without first buying it back from the LORD, they lose the right to buy it back. 
We are ruled by those who are no better than slaves, : and no one can save us from their power. 
In the seventeenth year of the reign of Pekah son of Remaliah as king of Israel, Ahaz son of Jotham became king of Judah 
The two witnesses are the two olive trees and the two lamps that stand before the Lord of the earth. 
Honesty makes a good person's life easier, but the wicked will cause their own downfall. 
Before your neighbours, be ashamed of theft. : Be ashamed of breaking a promise, : of leaning on the dinner table with your elbows, : of stinginess when you are asked for something, 
and keep yourselves in the love of God, as you wait for our Lord Jesus Christ in his mercy to give you eternal life. 
(For the pagans of this world are always concerned about all these things.) Your Father knows that you need these things.  
Jonathan answered, “He begged me to let him go to Bethlehem. 
The scales on his belly are like jagged pieces of pottery; : they tear up the muddy ground like a threshing-sledge. 
People with quick tempers cause a lot of quarrelling and trouble. 
And some seeds fell in good soil; the plants grew and produced corn, 100 grains each.” : And Jesus concluded, “Listen, then, if you have ears!” 
Then you will do what I have done. You will not cover your faces or eat the food that mourners eat. 
When Moses went down from Mount Sinai carrying the Ten Commandments, his face was shining because he had been speaking with the LORD; but he did not know it. 
Then the LORD would become furious with Israel and say, “This nation has broken the covenant that I commanded their ancestors to keep. Because they have not obeyed me, 
because you have rescued me from death : and kept me from defeat. : And so I walk in the presence of God, : in the light that shines on the living.
There is nothing they can give to regain their life.  
The tears running down a widow's cheek cry out in accusation against the one who has caused her distress. 
He inspected the approaches to the town and the springs that supplied its water. He seized the springs and stationed guards there, before returning to camp. 
but were rebellious and disloyal like their ancestors, : unreliable as a crooked arrow. 
The LORD said to Moses, 
But now I tell you: love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you,  
I bared my back to those who beat me. : I did not stop them when they insulted me, : when they pulled out the hairs of my beard : and spat in my face. 
Everyone will meet the same fate — the priests and the people, slaves and masters, buyers and sellers, lenders and borrowers, rich and poor. 
“That is how the Egyptians will lie crushed among the uncircumcised who were killed in battle. 
You can use the gall-bladder to treat someone whose eyes are covered with a white film. Just rub it on his eyes and blow on the film, and he will be able to see again.” 
The seeds that fell on rocky ground stand for those who receive the message gladly as soon as they hear it.  
I will put an end to all your songs, and I will silence the music of your harps. 
He said to the young man carrying his weapons, “Draw your sword and kill me, to keep these godless Philistines from gloating over me.” But the young man was too terrified to do it. So Saul took his own sword and threw himself on it. 
The sword is being polished, : to make it ready for use. : It is sharpened and polished, : to be put in the hands of a killer. 
Raguel asked his wife to bring him a blank scroll so that he could write out the marriage contract. Edna brought him the scroll, and Raguel wrote out the agreement, saying that Sarah was given to Tobias according to the teachings in the Law of Moses. 
“There is no safety for sinners,” says the LORD.
Those who worship worthless idols : have abandoned their loyalty to you. 
The king had it all made in the foundry between Sukkoth and Zarethan, in the Jordan Valley. 
Even before they finish praying to me, I will answer their prayers. 
Abraham went back to his servants, and they went together to Beersheba, where Abraham settled. 
He said to them, “Throw your net out on the right side of the boat, and you will catch some.” So they threw the net out and could not pull it back in, because they had caught so many fish. 
The total number of males one month old or older that were enrolled was 6,200. 
(But David did capture their fortress of Zion, and it became known as “David's City”.) 
The Sovereign LORD says, “After forty years I will bring the Egyptians back from the nations where I have scattered them, 
and ask the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, to give you the Spirit, who will make you wise and reveal God to you, so that you will know him. 
If you find someone with understanding, get up early to call on him; wear out his doorstep with your visits. 
He restored the wine steward to his former position, 
Their wealth will be looted and their houses destroyed. They will never live in the houses they are building or drink wine from the vineyards they are planting.” 
Like Jeroboam before him, he aroused the anger of the LORD, the God of Israel, by his sins and by leading the people into sin and idolatry. 
But Eliezer son of Dodavahu, from the town of Mareshah, warned Jehoshaphat, “Because you have made an alliance with Ahaziah, the LORD will destroy what you have built.” And the ships were wrecked and never sailed.
What my Father has given me is greater  than everything, and no one can snatch them away from the Father's care.  
Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah, 
So be careful how you live. Don't live like ignorant people, but like wise people. 
then take that person outside the town and stone him to death. 
Every ruler on earth governs with my help, : officials and nobles alike. 
And so David realized that the LORD had established him as king of Israel and was making his kingdom prosperous for the sake of his people. 
When Jesus finished saying these things, he left Galilee and went to the territory of Judea on the other side of the River Jordan. 
the people of Ivvah, idols of Nibhaz and Tartak; and the people of Sepharvaim sacrificed their children as burnt offerings to their gods Adrammelech and Anammelech. 
But the grace that God gives is even stronger. As the scripture says, “God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble.” 
I will kill the ruler of Moab and all the leaders of the land.” 
The two disciples heard him say this and went with Jesus. 
The king said, “Go to the king of Israel and take this letter to him.” : So Naaman set out, taking 30,000 pieces of silver, 6,000 pieces of gold, and ten changes of fine clothes. 
“So I, the Sovereign LORD, ask: will this vine live and grow? Won't the first eagle pull it up by its roots, pull off the grapes, and break off the branches and let them wither? It will not take much strength or a mighty nation to pull it up. 
They are coming from far-off countries at the ends of the earth. In his anger the LORD is coming to devastate the whole country. 
Wisdom has been my love. I courted her when I was young and wanted to make her my bride. I fell in love with her beauty. 
As they bought corn, Joseph collected all the money and took it to the palace. 
“And so I, the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, now ask why you are doing such an evil thing to yourselves. Do you want to bring destruction on men and women, children and babies, so that none of your people will be left? 
“You know that because of the constant wars my father David had to fight against the enemy countries all round him, he could not build a temple for the worship of the LORD his God until the LORD had given him victory over all his enemies. 
So the people sat down in rows, in groups of a hundred and groups of fifty. 
They looked like woodmen : cutting down trees with their axes. 
Instead, be concerned with his Kingdom, and he will provide you with these things. 
He then took thorns and briars from the desert and used them to punish the leaders of Sukkoth. 
When there was no answer, he drew the curtain aside and went in, and there he found the headless body sprawled over a footstool. 
were all panelled with wood from the floor to the windows. These windows could be covered.  
Remember, O LORD, what has happened to us. : Look at us, and see our disgrace. 
The land will no longer have to listen to the nations mocking it or see the peoples sneer at it. The land will no longer rob the nation of its children. I, the Sovereign LORD, have spoken.” 
In accordance with his own plan God had already decided that Jesus would be handed over to you; and you killed him by letting sinful men crucify him. 
Wealth is deceitful. Greedy people are proud and restless — like death itself they are never satisfied. That is why they conquer nation after nation for themselves. 
You can make clothes from the wool of your sheep and buy land with the money you get from selling some of your goats. 
She will have a son, and you will name him Jesus — because he will save his people from their sins.” 
Now Elisha had told the woman who lived in Shunem, whose son he had brought back to life, that the LORD was sending a famine on the land, which would last for seven years, and that she should leave with her family and go and live somewhere else. 
Near sunset the order went out through the Israelite ranks: “Every man go back to his own country and city!” 
One Sabbath Jesus was teaching in a synagogue. 
Rising from his prayer, he went back to the disciples and found them asleep, worn out by their grief. 
“God bless the king who comes in the name of the Lord! Peace in heaven and glory to God!” 
If you make your slave work, you can set your mind at ease. If you don't keep him busy, he will be looking for freedom. 
But he will answer, “Not me! I can't help you. I haven't any food or clothes either. Don't make me your leader!” 
It is God who directs the lives of his creatures; : everyone's life is in his power. 
O LORD, listen in heaven and judge your servants. Punish the guilty one as he deserves and acquit the one who is innocent. 
On that night, I tell you, there will be two people sleeping in the same bed: one will be taken away, the other will be left behind.  
Jesus said to them, “Come and eat.” None of the disciples dared ask him, “Who are you?” because they knew it was the Lord. 
But it does not sink deep into them, and they don't last long. So when trouble or persecution comes because of the message, they give up at once.  
and I am very angry with the nations that enjoy quiet and peace. For while I was holding back my anger against my people, those nations made the sufferings of my people worse. 
When you eat this meal, do not eat bread prepared with yeast. For seven days you are to eat bread prepared without yeast, as you did when you had to leave Egypt in such a hurry. Eat this bread — it will be called the bread of suffering — so that as long as you live you will remember the day you came out of Egypt, that place of suffering. 
There are three things in which I take special delight — things that are beautiful to the Lord and human beings alike: : brothers who get along with each other, : neighbours who are friends, : and a married couple who are happy together. 
This sin of the sons of Eli was extremely serious in the LORD's sight, because they treated the offerings to the LORD with such disrespect. 
The wicked build houses like a spider's web : or like the hut of a slave guarding the fields. 
Remember that you were slaves in Egypt and the LORD your God set you free; that is why I am now giving you this command. 
Then a voice said from heaven, “This is my own dear Son, with whom I am pleased.”
And so the LORD became angry with his people and brought on their land all the disasters written in this book. 
Praise him, hills and mountains, : fruit trees and forests; 
and on their wrists. He will take away their veils 
he must be able to manage his own family well and make his children obey him with all respect. 
When I returned home I was reunited with my wife Anna and my son Tobias. At the Harvest Festival, which is also called the Festival of Weeks, I sat down to a delicious meal. 
He returned to his brothers and said, “The boy is not there! What am I going to do?” 
The LORD says, : “Come together, people of the nations, : all who survive the fall of the empire; : present yourselves for the trial! : The people who parade with their idols of wood : and pray to gods that cannot save them — : those people know nothing at all! 
So they went after him with their men and overtook him near the large pool at Gibeon. 
His life will be short, and he will soon have to die, but he is not concerned about that. He wants to compete with those who work in gold, silver, and bronze, and make the same things as they do. He takes great pride in the things he makes, but they are counterfeit. 
She will be happier, however, if she stays as she is. That is my opinion, and I think that I too have God's Spirit.
They have been unfaithful to me, and so I will make the country a wilderness.” The Sovereign LORD has spoken.
and there in the LORD's presence he lit the lamps, just as the LORD had commanded. 
“There is a boy here who has five loaves of barley bread and two fish. But they will certainly not be enough for all these people.” 
They spent a long time in prison, and the captain assigned Joseph as their servant. 
He assigned to the priests the duties they were to perform in the Temple and encouraged them to do them well. 
“I will make the people who oppose you afraid of me; I will bring confusion among the people against whom you fight, and I will make all your enemies turn and run from you. 
A king will remain in power as long as his rule is honest, just, and fair. 
“On that night I will go through the land of Egypt, killing every firstborn male, both human and animal, and punishing all the gods of Egypt. I am the LORD. 
The LORD said, “Keep all my laws and commands, so that you will not be rejected by the land of Canaan, into which I am bringing you. 
I have been in danger of death many times, but I have always been able to escape by relying on past experience. 
Make sure that your endurance carries you all the way without failing, so that you may be perfect and complete, lacking nothing. 
Shecaniah had one son, Shemaiah, and five grandsons: Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah, and Shaphat. 
Jesus turned to them and said, “Women of Jerusalem! Don't cry for me, but for yourselves and your children.  
or if he has touched an unclean animal or person. 
the cities where his supplies were kept, the cities for his horses and chariots, and everything else he wanted to build in Jerusalem, in Lebanon, and elsewhere in his kingdom. 
the Tent, its inner cover, its outer cover, the fine leather cover on top of it, the curtain for the entrance, 
“They will be like bits of straw, : and a fire will burn them up! : They will not even be able to save themselves — : the flames will be too hot for them, : not a cosy fire to warm themselves by. 
Saul did not like this, and he became very angry. He said, “For David they claim tens of thousands, but only thousands for me. They will be making him king next!” 
All have turned away from God; : they have all gone wrong; : no one does what is right, not even one. 
How dare you say to your brother, ‘Please, let me take that speck out of your eye,’ when you have a log in your own eye?  
The commander said, “I became one by paying a large amount of money.” : “But I am one by birth,” Paul answered. 
I tell you, however, that Elijah has already come and that people treated him just as they pleased, as the Scriptures say about him.” 
“After the LORD your God has driven them out for you, do not say to yourselves that he brought you in to possess this land because you deserved it. No, the LORD is going to drive these people out for you because they are wicked. 
When the four men reached the edge of the camp, they went into a tent, ate and drank what was there, grabbed the silver, gold, and clothing they found, and went off and hid them; then they returned, entered another tent, and did the same thing. 
So, if you think of me as your partner, welcome him back just as you would welcome me. 
Isaac prepared a feast for them, and they ate and drank. 
I would have destroyed them completely, : so that no one would remember them. 
They said to one another, “We are not going to find anything of which to accuse Daniel unless it is something in connection with his religion.” 
He asked, “Will you go with me to attack Ramoth?” : Jehoshaphat replied, “I am ready when you are, and so is my army. We will join you.” 
you may be sure that wisdom is good for the soul. Get wisdom and you have a bright future. 
And God, who supplies seed to sow and bread to eat, will also supply you with all the seed you need and will make it grow and produce a rich harvest from your generosity. 
Don't wish for night to come, : the time when nations will perish. 
If your sons are true to my covenant : and to the commands I give them, : their sons, also, will succeed you for all time as kings.” 
Jesus answered them, “I will ask you just one question, and if you give me an answer, I will tell you what right I have to do these things.  
Their visions are false, and their predictions are lies. They claim that they are speaking my message, but I have not sent them. Yet they expect their words to come true! 
The righteous get what they want, but the wicked will get what they fear most. 
Joseph bought all the land in Egypt for the king. Every Egyptian was forced to sell his land, because the famine was so severe; and all the land became the king's property. 
He destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan and made his people the owners of the land. 
The word of God is alive and active, sharper than any double-edged sword. It cuts all the way through, to where soul and spirit meet, to where joints and marrow come together. It judges the desires and thoughts of the heart. 
if they pray to me and repent and turn away from the evil they have been doing, then I will hear them in heaven, forgive their sins, and make their land prosperous again. 
Remember the LORD in everything you do, and he will show you the right way. 
I will unite them into one nation in the land, on the mountains of Israel. They will have one king to rule over them, and they will no longer be divided into two nations or split into two kingdoms. 
He is not like an idol that workmen make, : that metalworkers cover with gold : and set in a base of silver. 
Ruthless foreigners will cut it down and leave it. Its branches and broken boughs will fall on every mountain and valley in the country. All the nations that have been living in its shade will go away. 
Many people treat a loan as something they found and can keep, causing embarrassment to those who helped them. 
My eyes flow with rivers of tears at the destruction of my people. 
Dear Theophilus: : Many people have done their best to write a report of the things that have taken place among us. 
Moses killed it and took some of the blood and put it on the lobe of Aaron's right ear, on the thumb of his right-hand, and on the big toe of his right foot. 
Your crops will be so plentiful that you will still be harvesting corn when it is time to pick grapes, and you will still be picking grapes when it is time to sow corn. You will have all that you want to eat, and you will live in safety in your land. 
They went inside and found the household idol in the bed and the goats'-hair pillow at its head. 
Then I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered to fight against the one who was riding the horse and against his army. 
Pride has its beginning when a person abandons the Lord, his maker. 
No, it's because you have sinned so much; : it's because of all the evil you do. 
The Lord rejected his altar and deserted his holy Temple; : He allowed the enemy to tear down its walls. : They shouted in victory where once we had worshipped in joy. 
So they left and returned to Ziph ahead of Saul. David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in a desolate valley in the southern part of the Judean wilderness. 
While you are on this earth, you must praise the Lord God and give him thanks. Now I must go back to him who sent me. Write down everything that has happened to you.” 
He led a mighty army to destruction, : an army of chariots and horses. : Down they fell, never to rise, : snuffed out like the flame of a lamp! 
Make loops of blue cloth on the edge of the outside piece in each set. 
The High Priest stood up and said to Jesus, “Have you no answer to give to this accusation against you?” 
LORD my God, I am your servant. Listen to my prayer, and grant the requests I make to you today. 
Their wickedness misled them into silly ideas, so that they worshipped snakes and other disgusting animals, creatures without any powers of reason. Because of this, you punished them with millions of such animals, 
and placed on it the bread offered to the LORD, just as the LORD had commanded. 
Joshua said to the people, “But you may not be able to serve the LORD. He is a holy God and will not forgive your sins. He will tolerate no rivals, 
Then James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came to Jesus. “Teacher,” they said, “there is something we want you to do for us.” 
and when he learnt that Mordecai was a Jew, he decided to do more than punish Mordecai alone. He made plans to kill every Jew in the whole Persian Empire. 
Do what the LORD says is right and good, and all will go well with you. You will be able to take possession of the fertile land that the LORD promised your ancestors, 
And Jesus concluded, “In your opinion, which one of these three acted like a neighbour towards the man attacked by the robbers?” 
God has not rejected his people, whom he chose from the beginning. You know what the scripture says in the passage where Elijah pleads with God against Israel
David tore his clothes in sorrow, and all his men did the same. 
Because they did not have faith, he did not perform many miracles there.
“Elam is there, with the graves of her soldiers all around. They were all killed in battle, and they went down, uncircumcised, to the world of the dead. In life they spread terror, but now they lie dead and disgraced. 
Don't try to prove your manhood by how much you can drink. Wine has been the ruin of many. 
Once again he prayed, and the sky poured out its rain and the earth produced its crops. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “point out to Jerusalem what disgusting things she has done. 
It included Kattath, Nahalal, Shimron, Idalah, and Bethlehem: twelve cities, along with the towns round them. 
So then, God has mercy on anyone he wishes, and he makes stubborn anyone he wishes. 
and overthrow kingdoms and end their power. I will overturn chariots and their drivers; the horses will die, and their riders will kill one another. 
You may charge interest on what you lend to a foreigner, but not on what you lend to a fellow-Israelite. Obey this rule, and the LORD your God will bless everything you do in the land that you are going to occupy. 
Then Joab blew the trumpet as a signal for his men to stop pursuing the Israelites; and so the fighting stopped. 
Human pride will be ended, and human arrogance will be destroyed. Idols will completely disappear, and the LORD alone will be exalted on that day. 
In the land that you are taking, destroy all the places where the people worship their gods on high mountains, on hills, and under green trees. 
Every valley must be filled up, : every hill and mountain levelled off. : The winding roads must be made straight, : and the rough paths made smooth. 
Aaron put the fat parts of the bull and the ram 
Water will wear down rocks, : and heavy rain will wash away the soil; : so you destroy our hope for life. 
The sixth assignment made was for the families of the tribe of Naphtali. 
Using the gift that God gave me, I did the work of an expert builder and laid the foundation, and someone else is building on it. But each one must be careful how he builds. 
Let us, then, do our best to receive that rest, so that no one of us will fail as they did because of their lack of faith. 
or stood waiting at a corner, sometimes in the streets, sometimes in the market place. 
lions, strongest of all animals and afraid of none; 
But because I love you, I make a request instead. I do this even though I am Paul, the ambassador of Christ Jesus, and at present also a prisoner for his sake.  
Although God speaks again and again, : no one pays attention to what he says. 
This is how it will be when the dead are raised to life. When the body is buried, it is mortal; when raised, it will be immortal. 
Then attack the lands to the west because they refused to respond to my appeal for help. 
He hides the full moon behind a cloud. 
He also killed an Egyptian, a huge man over two metres tall, who was armed with a gigantic spear. Benaiah attacked him with a club, snatched the spear from the Egyptian's hand, and killed him with it. 
Yes, I will gather them in Jerusalem, build a fire under them, and melt them with my anger. 
On the morning of the fourth day they woke up early and got ready to go. But the woman's father said to the Levite, “Have something to eat first. It will do you good. You can go later.” 
Our brothers and sisters, we must thank God at all times for you. It is right for us to do so, because your faith is growing so much and the love each of you has for the others is becoming greater. 
A man in the crowd answered, “Teacher, I brought my son to you, because he has an evil spirit in him and cannot talk. 
Those who died in the war were better off than those who died later, : who starved slowly to death, with no food to keep them alive. 
When David heard that Nabal had died, he said, “Praise the LORD! He has taken revenge on Nabal for insulting me and has kept me his servant from doing wrong. The LORD has punished Nabal for his evil.” : Then David sent a proposal of marriage to Abigail. 
Evil will kill the wicked; : those who hate the righteous will be punished. 
His enemies attack him fiercely : And pursue him with their bows and arrows. 
and sat in his usual place by the wall. Abner sat next to him, and Jonathan sat opposite him. David's place was empty, 
Then Nebuchadnezzar lost his temper, and his face turned red with anger at Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. So he ordered the furnace to be heated seven times hotter than usual. 
“Please do,” she answered. So the girl went and brought the baby's own mother. 
The man kept watching her in silence, to see if the LORD had given him success. 
“In two days, as you know, it will be the Passover Festival, and the Son of Man will be handed over to be crucified.” 
His disciples remembered that the scripture says, “My devotion to your house, O God, burns in me like a fire.” 
and when I got there I saw that there were very many trees on each bank. 
They complain about me. They say, “Who does that man think he's teaching? Who needs his message? It's only good for babies that have just been weaned! 
And so, what I did to Shiloh I will do to this Temple of mine, in which you trust. Here in this place that I gave to your ancestors and to you, I will do the same thing that I did to Shiloh. 
But Saul said, “No one will be put to death today, for this is the day the LORD rescued Israel.” 
So when the man said to Boaz, “You buy it,” he took off his sandal and gave it to Boaz.  
Then the LORD our God commanded us to obey all these laws and to honour him. If we do, he will always watch over our nation and keep it prosperous. 
He died for all, so that those who live should no longer live for themselves, but only for him who died and was raised to life for their sake. 
No man with any physical defect may make the offering: no one who is blind, lame, disfigured, or deformed; 
In the Valley of Hinnom they have built an altar called Topheth, so that they can sacrifice their sons and daughters in the fire. I did not command them to do this — it did not even enter my mind. 
The prince who is ruling them will shoulder his pack in the dark and escape through a hole that they dig for him in the wall. He will cover his eyes and not see where he is going. 
“Why do you call me good?” Jesus asked him. “No one is good except God alone.  
It was after they had come out of Egypt and were in the valley east of the River Jordan, opposite the town of Bethpeor, that he gave them these laws. This was in the territory that had belonged to King Sihon of the Amorites, who had ruled in the town of Heshbon. 
Remember what the LORD your God did to Miriam as you were coming from Egypt. 
So then, about eating the food offered to idols: we know that an idol stands for something that does not really exist; we know that there is only the one God. 
I was angry with them because of their sin and greed, and so I punished them and abandoned them. But they were stubborn and kept on going their own way. 
Long ago, you performed miracles and wonders in Egypt, and you have continued to perform them to this day, both in Israel and among all the other nations, so that you are now known everywhere. 
He also says, “I will put my trust in God.” And he also says, “Here I am with the children that God has given me.” 
and will bring them back from east and west to live in Jerusalem. They will be my people, and I will be their God, ruling over them faithfully and justly. 
But this son of yours wasted all your property on prostitutes, and when he comes back home, you kill the prize calf for him!’  
Can you guide the stars season by season : and direct the Great and the Little Bear? 
She was a bold and shameless woman who always walked the streets 
And just as the mass of people were made sinners as the result of the disobedience of one man, in the same way the mass of people will all be put right with God as the result of the obedience of the one man. 
You should have had mercy on your fellow-servant, just as I had mercy on you.’  
Now listen to me, my children, and never forget what I am saying. 
That is why we were encouraged. : Not only were we encouraged; how happy Titus made us with his happiness over the way in which all of you helped to cheer him up! 
I went up the mountain to receive the stone tablets on which was written the covenant that the LORD had made with you. I stayed there forty days and nights and did not eat or drink anything. 
that still bear fruit in old age : and are always green and strong. 
When you sow your fields in the eighth year, you will still be eating what you harvested during the sixth year, and you will have enough to eat until the crops you plant that year are harvested. 
Dress Aaron in the priestly garments, anoint him, and in this way consecrate him, so that he can serve me as priest. 
He too sinned against the LORD and followed the evil example of King Jeroboam, who had led Israel into sin. 
He will protect you as you come and go : now and for ever.
gentle as you correct your opponents, for it may be that God will give them the opportunity to repent and come to know the truth. 
There were seventy descendants of King Ahab living in the city of Samaria. Jehu wrote a letter and sent copies to the rulers of the city, to the leading citizens, and to the guardians of Ahab's descendants. The letter read
but he stayed behind, alone. : Then a man came and wrestled with him until just before daybreak. 
of what I saw that night: : Winds were blowing from all directions and lashing the surface of the ocean. 
Open the city gates : and let the faithful nation enter, : the nation whose people do what is right. 
Then the LORD thundered from the sky; : and the voice of the Most High was heard. 
“Do not join in the schemes of the people and do not be afraid of the things that they fear. 
I am terrified by the threats of my enemies, : crushed by the oppression of the wicked. : They bring trouble on me; : they are angry with me and hate me. 
This is how you will be able to know whether it is God's Spirit: anyone who acknowledges that Jesus Christ came as a human being has the Spirit who comes from God. 
The robe he wore was covered with blood. His name is “The Word of God”. 
Someone may consider himself wise and let you know that he is certain about what he knows. 
They saw the cloud over their camp and dry land where water had been. There was a grass-covered plain between the stormy waves of the Red Sea, making it easy for them to cross over. 
and carried off to Babylon all the treasures in the Temple and the palace. As the LORD had foretold, Nebuchadnezzar broke up all the gold utensils which King Solomon had made for use in the Temple. 
This will be your chance to tell the Good News.  
They sacrificed their sons and daughters as burnt offerings to pagan gods; they consulted mediums and fortune tellers, and they devoted themselves completely to doing what is wrong in the LORD's sight, and so aroused his anger. 
Jesus saw the crowds and went up a hill, where he sat down. His disciples gathered round him, 
or unmarried sister living in his house. 
Then all the officials came and questioned me, and I told them exactly what the king had told me to say. There was nothing else they could do, because no one had overheard the conversation. 
For if there was glory in that which lasted for a while, how much more glory is there in that which lasts for ever! 
Nicodemus, who at first had gone to see Jesus at night, went with Joseph, taking with him about thirty kilogrammes of spices, a mixture of myrrh and aloes. 
And then they abandoned their faith! It is impossible to bring them back to repent again, because they are again crucifying the Son of God and exposing him to public shame. 
and destroying a thick forest. : Their men are too many to count; : their soldiers outnumber the locusts. 
Promise me, women of Jerusalem, : that you will not interrupt our love. 
When my thoughts were bitter : and my feelings were hurt, 
There were no blacksmiths in Israel because the Philistines were determined to keep the Hebrews from making swords and spears. 
Whoever hates me hates my Father also.  
I am going to answer you and your friends too. 
“What is it, Queen Esther?” the king asked. “Tell me what you want, and you shall have it — even if it is half my empire.” 
Sisera asked for water, but she gave him milk; : she brought him cream in a beautiful bowl. 
and said, “I am now 120 years old and am no longer able to be your leader. And besides this, the LORD has told me that I will not cross the Jordan. 
Someone whose spirit is only borrowed made them. No one can ever make a god that is equal to a human being. 
“Tell my lord, King Benhadad, that I agree; he can have me and everything I own,” Ahab answered. 
You will go ahead of me to Gilgal, where I will meet you and offer burnt sacrifices and fellowship sacrifices. Wait there seven days until I come and tell you what to do.” 
There was no need for anyone to tell him about them, because he himself knew what was in their hearts.
The nations who rise up against my people are doomed. : The Lord Almighty will punish them on Judgement Day. : He will send fire and worms to devour their bodies, : and they will weep in pain for ever.” 
Some people will speak politely, bow, and scrape until they get the loan they want, but when the time comes to pay it back, they'll put it off, say that it's inconvenient, and make a lot of worthless excuses. 
So Hazael loaded forty camels with all kinds of the finest products of Damascus and went to Elisha. When Hazael met him, he said, “Your servant King Benhadad has sent me to ask you whether or not he will recover from his illness.” 
He freed us from Egypt to bring us here and give us this land, as he had promised our ancestors he would. 
“I feel sorry for these people, because they have been with me for three days and now have nothing to eat.  
We will all die; we are like water spilt on the ground, which can't be gathered again. Even God does not bring the dead back to life, but the king can at least find a way to bring a man back from exile.  
Do not be afraid — I am with you! : I am your God — let nothing terrify you! : I will make you strong and help you; : I will protect you and save you. 
You can be ruined by the talk of godless people, but the wisdom of the righteous can save you. 
Women of Jerusalem, I am dark but beautiful, : dark as the desert tents of Kedar, : but beautiful as the curtains in Solomon's palace. 
This was done by the Lord; :   what a wonderful sight it is!’ ” 
There are three witnesses
Also offer one male goat as a sin offering and two one-year-old male lambs as a fellowship offering. 
These are the responsibilities of the Merari clan in their service in the Tent: they shall carry them out under the direction of Ithamar son of Aaron the priest. 
Jesus said to them, “You can be sure that when the Son of Man sits on his glorious throne in the New Age, then you twelve followers of mine will also sit on thrones, to rule the twelve tribes of Israel.  
However, he did not kill their children but followed what the LORD had commanded in the Law of Moses: “Parents are not to be put to death for crimes committed by their children, and children are not to be put to death for crimes committed by their parents; a person is to be put to death only for a crime he himself has committed.” 
The LORD gave this message to Zechariah
It also says, ‘They will hold you up with their hands so that not even your feet will be hurt on the stones.’ ” 
When they had filled all the jars, she asked if there were any more. “That was the last one,” one of her sons answered. And the olive oil stopped flowing. 
and rain fell on the earth for forty days and nights. 
About this time King Herod began to persecute some members of the church. 
Then Abimelech gave Sarah back to Abraham, and at the same time he gave him sheep, cattle, and slaves. 
You created the north and the south; : Mount Tabor and Mount Hermon sing to you for joy. 
On the following day, the day after the New Moon Festival, David's place was still empty, and Saul asked Jonathan, “Why didn't David come to the meal either yesterday or today?” 
Now, this is the covenant that I will make with the people of Israel : in the days to come, says the Lord: : I will put my laws in their minds : and write them on their hearts. : I will be their God, : and they will be my people. 
Any clay pot in which the meat is boiled must be broken, and if a metal pot is used, it must be scrubbed and rinsed with water. 
But that night God said to Nathan, 
Moses put down its bases, set up its frames, attached its crossbars, and put up its posts. 
where some people brought to him a paralysed man, lying on a bed. When Jesus saw how much faith they had, he said to the paralysed man, “Courage, my son! Your sins are forgiven.” 
You can smell the scent of mandrakes, : and all the pleasant fruits are near our door. : Darling, I have kept for you : the old delights and the new.
and the other two groups did the same. They all held the torches in their left-hands, the trumpets in their right, and shouted, “A sword for the LORD and for Gideon!” 
If he dedicates it later, the priest shall estimate the cash value according to the number of years left until the next Year of Restoration, and fix a reduced price. 
“Evildoers live among my people; they lie in wait like those who spread nets to catch birds, but they have set their traps to catch people. 
So the LORD said, “Listen, you nations, and learn what is going to happen to my people. 
Its officials are like roaring lions; its judges are like hungry wolves, too greedy to leave a bone until morning. 
I am all the more eager, then, to send him to you, so that you will be glad again when you see him, and my own sorrow will disappear. 
“Mortal man,” he said, “now that those Israelite rebels are asking you what you're doing, 
“I am a Jew, born in Tarsus in Cilicia, but brought up here in Jerusalem as a student of Gamaliel. I received strict instruction in the Law of our ancestors and was just as dedicated to God as are all of you who are here today. 
LORD God Almighty, none is as mighty as you; : in all things you are faithful, O LORD. 
The shaft of the lampstand had four decorative flowers shaped like almond blossoms with buds and petals. 
The LORD says, “People of Judah, your sin is written with an iron pen; it is engraved on your hearts with a diamond point and carved on the corners of your altars. 
The first one said to the other, “Run and tell that young man with the measuring line that there are going to be so many people and so much livestock in Jerusalem that it will be too big to have walls. 
The men in charge of the work are thoroughly honest, so there is no need to require them to account for the funds.” 
and sent them to the Lord to ask him, “Are you the one John said was going to come, or should we expect someone else?” 
The LORD has given me understanding, : and I have not rebelled : or turned away from him. 
(The name of the star is “Bitterness”.) A third of the water turned bitter, and many people died from drinking the water, because it had turned bitter. 
After some time, in the third year of the drought, the LORD said to Elijah, “Go and present yourself to King Ahab, and I will send rain.” 
Why am I so sad? : Why am I so troubled? : I will put my hope in God, : and once again I will praise him, : my saviour and my God. 
Blot that night out of the year, : and never let it be counted again; 
“Prophesy, then, and announce what I, the Sovereign LORD, am saying. When the neighbouring nations captured and plundered the mountains of Israel, all of them insulted Israel. 
He was so great that people of all nations, races, and languages were afraid of him and trembled. If he wanted to kill someone, he did; if he wanted to keep someone alive, he did. He honoured or disgraced anyone he wanted to. 
I have shown your glory on earth; I have finished the work you gave me to do.  
We are witnesses to these things — we and the Holy Spirit, who is God's gift to those who obey him.” 
Joseph's brothers were jealous of him, but his father kept thinking about the whole matter. 
But I still feel confident about you. Our life in union with the Lord makes me confident that you will not take a different view and that the man who is upsetting you, whoever he is, will be punished by God. 
Then Nebuchadnezzar occupied all the towns in the land of Media and advanced against the city of Ecbatana. He captured the city's towers, looted its markets, and made that beautiful city a ruin. 
“No other nation, no matter how great, has a god who is so near when they need him as the LORD our God is to us. He answers us whenever we call for help. 
I will fasten him firmly in place like a peg, and he will be a source of honour to his whole family. 
He sat down to eat with them, took the bread, and said the blessing; then he broke the bread and gave it to them. 
as if he had been hired on an annual basis. His master must not treat him harshly. 
But you, God's people, will be happy and sing as you do on the night of a sacred festival. You will be as happy as those who walk to the music of flutes on their way to the Temple of the LORD, the defender of Israel. 
Everything else that Jeroboam II did, his brave battles, and how he restored Damascus and Hamath to Israel, are all recorded in The History of the Kings of Israel. 
These clans numbered 22,200 men. 
Joah, Iddo, Zerah, Jeatherai. 
Any bed on which he sits or lies is unclean. 
Our ancestor Jacob had to flee to Mesopotamia, where, in order to get a wife, he worked for another man and took care of his sheep. 
Who were the people who heard God's voice and rebelled against him? All those who were led out of Egypt by Moses. 
Then David commanded the people, “Praise the LORD your God!” And the whole assembly praised the LORD, the God of their ancestors, and they bowed low and gave honour to the LORD and also to the king. 
I have seen the sin of Samaria's prophets: : they have spoken in the name of Baal : and have led my people astray. 
Then Ehud went outside, closed the doors behind him, locked them, 
as an offering to the LORD anywhere except at the entrance of the Tent shall no longer be considered one of God's people. 
“Another servant came and said, ‘Sir, here is your gold coin; I kept it hidden in a handkerchief.  
If I sent you to great nations that spoke difficult languages you didn't understand, they would listen to you. 
Jerusalem, wash the evil from your heart, so that you may be saved. How long will you go on thinking sinful thoughts? 
These are the men that the LORD assigned to divide the property for the people of Israel in the land of Canaan.
Praise him, kings and all peoples, : princes and all other rulers; 
During his reign silver was as common in Jerusalem as stone, and cedar was as plentiful as ordinary sycomore in the foothills of Judah. 
When a man marries, he gets the finest thing he will ever have — a wife to help and encourage him. 
No one knows how the clouds move : or how the thunder roars : through the sky, where God dwells. 
Jesus said to him, “I promise you that today you will be in Paradise with me.” 
I assure you that there are some here who will not die until they have seen the Kingdom of God.” 
“Listen to these words, fellow-Israelites! Jesus of Nazareth was a man whose divine authority was clearly proven to you by all the miracles and wonders which God performed through him. You yourselves know this, for it happened here among you. 
Abraham answered, “I thought that there would be no one here who has reverence for God and that they would kill me to get my wife. 
A person who has lived a hundred years has lived an unusually long time, 
He sent for a sword, and when it was brought, 
“Dedicate the Levites as a special gift to me, and put Aaron and his sons in charge of them. 
But they shouted back, “Crucify him! Crucify him!” 
“Just as I have brought this disaster on these people, so I am going to give them all the good things that I have promised. 
The person who speaks in strange tongues, then, must pray for the gift to explain what is said. 
and then led them along the way to Sinai and Kadesh Barnea. : “The Israelites drove out all the people who lived in the southern part of Canaan, 
If you belong to Christ, then you are the descendants of Abraham and will receive what God has promised.
The LORD says to his people, : “When the time comes to save you, I will show you favour : and answer your cries for help. : I will guard and protect you : and through you make a covenant with all peoples. : I will let you settle once again : in your land that is now laid waste. 
The blind and the crippled came to him in the Temple, and he healed them. 
Those who guard the city are shouting, : shouting together for joy! : They can see with their own eyes : the return of the LORD to Zion! 
Eleazar son of Aaron died and was buried at Gibeah, the town in the hill country of Ephraim which had been given to his son Phinehas.
Now, there were seven brothers who used to live here. The eldest got married and died without having children, so he left his widow to his brother. 
They are to fulfil their duties to you and their responsibilities for the Tent, but they must not have any contact with sacred objects in the Holy Place or with the altar. If they do, both they and you will be put to death. 
After Tola came Jair from Gilead. He led Israel for 22 years. 
He must hold firmly to the message which can be trusted and which agrees with the doctrine. In this way he will be able to encourage others with the true teaching and also to show the error of those who are opposed to it. 
They cut deep wounds in my back : and made it like a ploughed field. 
They are ships coming from distant lands, : Bringing God's people home. : They bring with them silver and gold : To honour the name of the LORD, : The holy God of Israel, : Who has made all nations honour his people. 
Make two gold rings and attach them to the upper corners of the breastpiece, 
The officials shouted this in Hebrew in order to frighten and discourage the people of Jerusalem who were on the city wall, so that it would be easier to capture the city. 
Jesus returned from the Jordan full of the Holy Spirit and was led by the Spirit into the desert, 
I create both light and darkness; : I bring both blessing and disaster. : I, the LORD, do all these things. 
like servants who are waiting for their master to come back from a wedding feast. When he comes and knocks, they will open the door for him at once.  
When I thought it over, I realized that God had not spoken to Shemaiah, but that Tobiah and Sanballat had bribed him to give me this warning. 
and the LORD said, “Listen to everything the people say to you. You are not the one they have rejected; I am the one they have rejected as their king. 
They will say, “Prepare to attack Jerusalem! Get ready! We'll attack at noon!” But then they will say, “It's too late, the day is almost over, and the evening shadows are growing long. 
And now, Job, listen carefully : to all that I have to say. 
We are glad when we are weak but you are strong. And so we also pray that you will become perfect. 
Paul and Silas travelled on through Amphipolis and Apollonia and came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue. 
You will always have poor people with you, but you will not always have me.” 
This is now the third time that I am coming to visit you. “Any accusation must be upheld by the evidence of two or more witnesses” — as the scripture says. 
He listens to me : every time I call to him. 
when God became angry with them : and killed their strongest men, : the best young men of Israel. 
Her husband Elkanah would ask her, “Hannah, why are you crying? Why won't you eat? Why are you always so sad? Don't I mean more to you than ten sons?” 
Then Nebuzaradan took away to Babylonia the people who were left in the city, the remaining skilled workmen, and those who had deserted to the Babylonians. 
Wisdom gave speech to those who could not speak; she even caused babies to speak clearly.
I am sending men to destroy it. They will all bring their axes, cut down its beautiful cedar pillars, and throw them into the fire. 
So the LORD changed his mind and did not bring on his people the disaster he had threatened. 
Please, sir, do not dismiss lightly what Achior told you, but take it seriously, because it is true. No one can harm or conquer our people unless they sin against their God. 
In the meantime the disciples were begging Jesus, “Teacher, have something to eat!” 
Some day there will be a king who rules with integrity, and national leaders who govern with justice. 
You, like your ancestors before you, have turned away from my laws and have not kept them. Turn back to me, and I will turn to you. But you ask, ‘What must we do to turn back to you?’ 
Will the LORD be pleased if I bring him thousands of sheep or endless streams of olive oil? Shall I offer him my firstborn child to pay for my sins? 
By the living LORD,” David continued, “I know that the LORD himself will kill Saul, either when his time comes to die a natural death or when he dies in battle. 
but for your sake it is much more important that I remain alive. 
Bitter suffering is all he has given me for food and drink. 
They knew only what others were saying: “The man who used to persecute us is now preaching the faith that he once tried to destroy!” 
A thousand years to you are like one day; : they are like yesterday, already gone, : like a short hour in the night. 
As they pass through the dry valley of Baca, : it becomes a place of springs; : the autumn rain fills it with pools. 
So the spirits begged Jesus, “Send us to the pigs, and let us go into them.” 
You are doomed, you sinful nation, you corrupt and evil people! Your sins drag you down! You have rejected the LORD, the holy God of Israel, and have turned your backs on him. 
Peter travelled everywhere, and on one occasion he went to visit God's people who lived in Lydda. 
A shrewd servant will gain authority over a master's worthless son and receive a part of the inheritance. 
Jesus answered him, “Foxes have holes, and birds have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lie down and rest.” 
The man must wash the internal organs and the hind legs, and the officiating priest will burn the whole sacrifice on the altar. The smell of this food offering is pleasing to the LORD. 
But now many nations will marvel at him, : and kings will be speechless with amazement. : They will see and understand : something they had never known.”
of those who are true to his covenant : and who faithfully obey his commands. 
Levi had three sons: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
There were also Ain, Rimmon, Ether, and Ashan: four cities, along with the towns round them. 
Watch over this Temple day and night. You have promised that this is where you will be worshipped, so hear me when I face this Temple and pray. 
You will be ashamed of yourself, and your disgrace will show your sisters how well off they are. 
They took all the loot that they had captured, including the prisoners and the animals, 
Some of your people tell lies about others in order to have them put to death. Some of them eat sacrifices offered to idols. Some are always satisfying their lusts. 
So Sanballat and Geshem sent me a message, suggesting that I meet with them in one of the villages in the Plain of Ono. This was a trick of theirs to try to harm me. 
And Moses clearly proves that the dead are raised to life. In the passage about the burning bush he speaks of the Lord as ‘the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.’  
and I died. And the commandment which was meant to bring life, in my case brought death. 
or charms, and don't let them consult the spirits of the dead. 
Jesus said to him, “Do you believe because you see me? How happy are those who believe without seeing me!” 
No matter how many children you have, don't look on them with pride unless they fear the Lord. 
So the other disciples told him, “We have seen the Lord!” : Thomas said to them, “Unless I see the scars of the nails in his hands and put my finger on those scars and my hand in his side, I will not believe.” 
My song will keep your fame alive for ever, : and everyone will praise you for all time to come.
Husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave his life for it. 
If a man marries a woman and her mother, all three shall be burnt to death because of the disgraceful thing they have done; such a thing must not be permitted among you. 
“Do not steal. 
The tribe of Reuben (Reuben was the eldest son of Jacob): the clans of Hanoch, Pallu, 
But they added, “The crowd is too big, and it's raining hard. We can't stand here in the open like this. This isn't something that can be done in one or two days, because so many of us are involved in this sin. 
All the islands disappeared, all the mountains vanished. 
Work hard and do not be lazy. Serve the Lord with a heart full of devotion. 
The people of the city were divided: some were for the Jews, others for the apostles. 
Your words will be used to judge you — to declare you either innocent or guilty.” 
People will build houses and live in them themselves — they will not be used by someone else. They will plant vineyards and enjoy the wine — it will not be drunk by others. Like trees, my people will live long lives. They will fully enjoy the things that they have worked for. 
People of Jerusalem, you are under siege! Gather up your belongings. 
Give them these instructions and these teachings. 
They shouted in a loud voice, “Almighty Lord, holy and true! How long will it be until you judge the people on earth and punish them for killing us?” 
Any members of your family who die in the city will be eaten by dogs, and any who die in the open country will be eaten by vultures.” 
Two days later there was a wedding in the town of Cana in Galilee. Jesus' mother was there, 
You should not have gloated : over the misfortune of your brothers in Judah. : You should not have been glad : on the day of their ruin. : You should not have laughed at them : in their distress. 
And so in this case, I tell you, do not take any action against these men. Leave them alone! If what they have planned and done is of human origin, it will disappear, 
“Mortal man,” he said, “King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia launched an attack on Tyre. He made his soldiers carry such heavy loads that their heads were rubbed bald and their shoulders were worn raw, but neither the king nor his army got anything for all their trouble. 
So the LORD allowed those nations to remain in the land; he did not give Joshua victory over them, nor did he drive them out soon after Joshua's death.
Because of his skill in music Chenaniah was chosen to be in charge of the levitical musicians. 
Then Moses took the blood in the bowls and threw it on the people. He said, “This is the blood that seals the covenant which the LORD made with you when he gave all these commands.” 
You have heard what an Assyrian emperor does to any country he decides to destroy. Do you think that you can escape? 
and instructed his servants: “Notice when Amnon has had too much to drink, and then when I give the order, kill him. Don't be afraid. I will take the responsibility myself. Be brave and don't hesitate!” 
He answered, “The man who made me well told me to pick up my mat and walk.” 
Cover the frames with gold and fit them with gold rings to hold the crossbars, which are also to be covered with gold. 
They wink and make gestures to deceive you, 
Then Abraham bowed before them 
I give thanks to Christ Jesus our Lord, who has given me strength for my work. I thank him for considering me worthy and appointing me to serve him, 
So build your towns and the enclosures for your sheep, but do what you have promised!” 
The Assyrian emperor sent a large army from Lachish to attack Hezekiah at Jerusalem; it was commanded by his three highest officials. When they arrived at Jerusalem, they occupied the road where the clothmakers work, by the ditch that brings water from the upper pond. 
A temple had not yet been built for the LORD, and so the people were still offering sacrifices at many different altars. 
You must never worship another god. 
Don't let me be killed on foreign soil, away from the LORD. Why should the king of Israel come to kill a flea like me? Why should he hunt me down like a wild bird?” 
Keep God's laws and you will live longer; if you ignore them, you will die. 
In the fourth year all the fruit shall be dedicated as an offering to show your gratitude to me, the LORD. 
After saying this, he dismissed the meeting.
Do not be deceived, my dear brothers and sisters! 
Then he said to them, “These are the very things I told you about while I was still with you: everything written about me in the Law of Moses, the writings of the prophets, and the Psalms had to come true.” 
Samuel left Gilgal and went on his way. The rest of the people followed Saul as he went to join his soldiers. They went from Gilgal to Gibeah in the territory of Benjamin. Saul inspected his troops, about 600 men. 
But if a man, without being forced to do so, has firmly made up his mind not to marry, and if he has his will under complete control and has already decided in his own mind what to do — then he does well not to marry the young woman.  
And so you punished them for their stupidity, and your judgement made them look like fools. 
So now, descendants of Jacob, trust in your God and return to him. Be loyal and just, and wait patiently for your God to act. 
Then he brought Aaron's sons forward and put some of the blood on the lobes of their right ears, on the thumbs of their right-hands, and on the big toes of their right feet. Moses then threw the rest of the blood on all four sides of the altar. 
Once a year Aaron is to perform the ritual for purifying the altar by putting on its four projections the blood of the animal sacrificed for sin. This is to be done every year for all time to come. This altar is to be completely holy, dedicated to me, the LORD.” 
Sihon, king of the Amorites; : his love is eternal; 
My wife can't stand the smell of my breath, : and my own brothers won't come near me. 
If you worship me, the LORD your God, I will bless you with food and water and take away all your illnesses. 
Therefore you are to issue orders that those men are to stop rebuilding the city until I give further commands. 
They took oak trees from Bashan to make oars; : They made your deck out of pine from Cyprus : And inlaid it with ivory. 
Neither of them could pay him back, so he cancelled the debts of both. Which one, then, will love him more?” 
Promise that you will help your servant; : don't let the arrogant oppress me! 
Micaiah, the son of Gemariah and grandson of Shaphan, heard Baruch read from the scroll what the LORD had said. 
“I have now given you a choice between a blessing and a curse. When all these things have happened to you, and you are living among the nations where the LORD your God has scattered you, you will remember the choice I gave you. 
I will praise him for what he has done; : may all who are oppressed listen and be glad! 
This is what the Sovereign LORD says: “I will hand you over to people you hate and are disgusted with. 
Ner was the father of Kish, and Kish was the father of Saul. Saul had four sons: Jonathan, Malchishua, Abinadab, and Eshbaal.  
So the disciples started asking among themselves, “Could somebody have brought him food?” 
The time came for Esther to go to the king. Esther — the daughter of Abihail and the cousin of Mordecai, who had adopted her as his daughter; Esther — admired by everyone who saw her. When her turn came, she wore just what Hegai, the eunuch in charge of the harem, advised her to wear. 
Abimelech said, “I don't know who did this. You didn't tell me about it, and this is the first I have heard of it.” 
because both of you were unfaithful to me in the presence of the people of Israel. When you were at the waters of Meribah, near the town of Kadesh in the wilderness of Zin, you dishonoured me in the presence of the people. 
I am now giving you the choice between life and death, between God's blessing and God's curse, and I call heaven and earth to witness the choice you make. Choose life. 
Then he is to take some cedar wood, a sprig of hyssop, and a red cord and throw them into the fire. 
So Boaz took Ruth home as his wife. The LORD blessed her, and she became pregnant and had a son. 
A thief's partner is his own worst enemy. He will be punished if he tells the truth in court, and God will curse him if he doesn't. 
The LORD says, : “Israel, I wanted to accept you as my child : and give you a delightful land, : the most beautiful land in all the world. : I wanted you to call me father, : and never again turn away from me. 
And those descendants of Levi who are priests are commanded by the Law to collect a tenth from the people of Israel, that is, from their own people, even though they are also descendants of Abraham. 
The paths they follow will be slippery and dark; : I will make them stumble and fall. : I am going to bring disaster on them; : the time of their punishment is coming. : I, the LORD, have spoken. 
You give me strength to attack my enemies : and power to overcome their defences. 
Every intelligent person can recognize wisdom and will honour anyone who shows it. 
David's men went back to him and told him what Nabal had said. 
As soon as Rehoboam had established his authority as king, he and all his people abandoned the Law of the LORD. 
You make springs flow in the valleys, : and rivers run between the hills. 
The following spring, at the time of the year when kings usually go to war, David sent out Joab with his officers and the Israelite army; they defeated the Ammonites and besieged the city of Rabbah. But David himself stayed in Jerusalem. 
The High Priest Joakim and the Council of Israel came from Jerusalem to see for themselves what great things the Lord had done for his people and to meet Judith and congratulate her. 
He got rid of all the male and female prostitutes serving at the pagan altars who were still left from the days of his father Asa. 
I gave them what they deserved for their uncleanness and their wickedness, and I turned away from them.” 
We who are strong in the faith ought to help the weak to carry their burdens. We should not please ourselves. 
Can people make their own gods? No, if they did, those would not really be gods.” 
“Achior, who do you think you are, acting like a prophet? Who are you to tell us not to go to war against the Israelites because some god will defend them? Nebuchadnezzar is our god, and that's all that matters. He will send his army and wipe these Israelites off the face of the earth. Their god can't help them. 
The God of Israel, who saves his people, : is a God who conceals himself. 
Little by little he will drive out these nations as you advance. You will not be able to destroy them all at once, for, if you did, the number of wild animals would increase and be a threat to you. 
They made two more gold rings and attached them to the lower part of the front of the two shoulder straps of the ephod, near the seam and above the finely woven belt. 
But take up the weapons of the Lord Jesus Christ, and stop paying attention to your sinful nature and satisfying its desires.
The teacher of the Law answered, “The one who was kind to him.” : Jesus replied, “You go, then, and do the same.” 
I myself will turn against the man and his whole family and against all who join him in being unfaithful to me and worshipping Molech. I will no longer consider them my people. 
It is not up in the sky. You do not have to ask, ‘Who will go up and bring it down for us, so that we can hear it and obey it?’ 
All its precious idols will be smashed to pieces, everything given to its temple prostitutes will be destroyed by fire, and all its images will become a desolate heap. Samaria acquired these things for its fertility rites, and now her enemies will carry them off for temple prostitutes elsewhere.” 
He has sent me to proclaim : That the time has come : When the LORD will save his people : And defeat their enemies. : He has sent me to comfort all who mourn, 
and to Ziphron, and will end at Hazar Enan. 
Through him you believe in God, who raised him from death and gave him glory; and so your faith and hope are fixed on God. 
The Passover, celebrated to honour the LORD, begins at sunset on the fourteenth day of the first month. 
the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor, 
Peace of mind makes the body healthy, but jealousy is like a cancer. 
Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel, 
I did not charge you a thing when I preached the Good News of God to you; I humbled myself in order to make you important. Was that wrong of me? 
Simon Peter answered, “Lord, do not wash only my feet, then! Wash my hands and head, too!” 
They will not follow someone else; instead, they will run away from such a person, because they do not know his voice.” 
Their outstretched wings covered the Box and the carrying poles. 
I will turn the city of Rabbah into a place to keep camels, and the whole country of Ammon into a place to keep sheep, so that you will know that I am the LORD. 
This was a warning to the Israelites that no one who was not a descendant of Aaron should come to the altar to burn incense for the LORD. Otherwise he would be destroyed like Korah and his men. All this was done as the LORD had commanded Eleazar through Moses. 
Then Joshua sent the people away, and they all returned to their own part of the land. 
I have set Israel's people free : and have saved them from a mighty nation. 
and went back to his home town. He taught in the synagogue, and those who heard him were amazed. “Where did he get such wisdom?” they asked. “And what about his miracles? 
“I am the good shepherd, who is willing to die for the sheep.  
“Remember, LORD, that I have served you faithfully and loyally, and that I have always tried to do what you wanted me to.” And he began to cry bitterly. 
When the men of Ai looked back, they saw the smoke rising to the sky. There was no way for them to escape, because the Israelites who had run towards the barren country now turned round to attack them. 
The priests went inside the Temple to purify it, and they carried out into the temple courtyard everything that was ritually unclean. From there the Levites took it all outside the city to the valley of the Kidron. 
The king's agents controlled the export of horses from Musri and Cilicia,  
So then, you Gentiles are not foreigners or strangers any longer; you are now fellow-citizens with God's people and members of the family of God. 
and his soldiers tore down the city walls. 
The little that a good person owns : is worth more than the wealth of all the wicked, 
Then I left Topheth, where the LORD had sent me to proclaim his message. I went and stood in the court of the Temple and told all the people 
On the tenth day of the fifth month of the nineteenth year of King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia, Nebuzaradan, adviser to the king and commander of his army, entered Jerusalem. 
He is my protector and defender, : my shelter and saviour, : in whom I trust for safety. : He subdues the nations under me. 
It is better to trust in the LORD : than to depend on human beings. 
Some of the people standing there heard him and said, “He is calling for Elijah!” 
In this way the priest shall offer the sacrifice for the man's sin, and he will be forgiven. The rest of the flour belongs to the priest, just as in the case of a grain offering. 
Every morning when Aaron comes to get the lamps ready, he is to burn sweet-smelling incense on it. 
Long ago I learnt about your instructions; : you made them to last for ever. 
The king will mourn, the prince will give up hope, and the people will shake with fear. I will punish you for all you have done, and will judge you in the same way as you have judged others. This will show you that I am the LORD.”
To a person without any sense, an education is like handcuffs, 
Now then, give praise to the God of the universe, who has done great things everywhere, who brings us up from the time we are born, and deals with us mercifully. 
“We must not do it during the festival,” they said, “or the people might riot.” 
“When the LORD spoke to you from the fire on Mount Sinai, you did not see any form. For your own good, then, make certain 
Please think this over and decide what to do. This could be disastrous for our master and all his family. He is so pigheaded that he won't listen to anybody!” 
Seeing how much faith they had, Jesus said to the paralysed man, “My son, your sins are forgiven.” 
Temple guards (descendants of Shallum, Ater, Talmon, Akkub, Hatita, and Shobai) — 139 
The danger of death was round me, : and the grave set its trap for me. 
after saying to him, “Listen, don't tell anyone about this. But go straight to the priest and let him examine you; then in order to prove to everyone that you are cured, offer the sacrifice that Moses ordered.” 
Of course what I am saying now is not what the Lord would like me to say; in this matter of boasting I am really talking like a fool. 
The LORD said to me, 
David and all the Israelites were dancing and singing with all their might to honour the LORD. They were playing harps, lyres, drums, rattles, and cymbals. 
Never forget such a companion in battle; share the results of your victory with him. 
Rely on her for support, and you will never know the disgrace of failure. 
Reuben said, “I told you not to harm the boy, but you wouldn't listen. And now we are being paid back for his death.” 
In the presence of God and of Christ Jesus and of the holy angels I solemnly call upon you to obey these instructions without showing any prejudice or favour to anyone in anything you do. 
When they reported this to Jehu, he said, “This is what the LORD said would happen, when he spoke through his servant Elijah: ‘Dogs will eat Jezebel's body in the territory of Jezreel. 
In times of trouble he will shelter me; : he will keep me safe in his Temple : and make me secure on a high rock. 
But God shoots his arrows at them, : and suddenly they are wounded. 
Peter kept on talking to Cornelius as he went into the house, where he found many people gathered. 
All the wealth you lost will be nothing : compared with what God will give you then. 
Wisdom's servants are the servants of the Holy One, and the Lord loves everyone who loves her. 
Wisdom is in every thought of intelligent people; fools know nothing about wisdom. 
When the LORD saved David from Saul and his other enemies, David sang this song to the LORD
Then all the leaders of Israel met together, went to Samuel in Ramah, 
When a righteous person stops doing good and starts doing evil and then dies, he dies because of the evil he has done. 
The LORD did as Moses asked, and the frogs in the houses, the courtyards, and the fields died. 
As for the people of Judah who are left and are determined to go and live in Egypt, I will see to it that all of them are destroyed. All of them, great and small, will die in Egypt, either in war or of starvation. They will be a horrifying sight; people will treat them with scorn and use their name as a curse. 
She handed him the tasty food, together with the bread she had baked. 
May those who honour you come to me — : all those who know your commands. 
Abraham himself said that she was his sister, and she said the same thing. I did this with a clear conscience, and I have done no wrong.” 
Joab said to him, “If you see that the Syrians are defeating me, come and help me, and if the Ammonites are defeating you, I will go and help you. 
“From Rehum, the governor, from Shimshai, secretary of the province, from their associates, the judges, and from all the other officials, who are men originally from Erech, Babylon, and Susa in the land of Elam, 
Do you think that my Temple is a hiding place for robbers? I have seen what you are doing. 
Because David went to live in the fortress, it came to be called “David's City”. 
“Do not cheat anyone by using false measures of length, weight, or quantity. 
The LORD spoke to me. 
So then, my dear friends, keep away from the worship of idols. 
For each one pay five pieces of silver, according to the official standard, 
“What did they see in the palace?” : “They saw everything. There is nothing in the storerooms that I didn't show them.” 
“Divide the land among the tribes, according to their size. 
At that time the Philistines gathered to go to war against Israel, so the Israelites set out to fight them. The Israelites set up their camp at Ebenezer and the Philistines at Aphek. 
The way to become wise is to honour the LORD; : he gives sound judgement to all who obey his commands. : He is to be praised for ever.
He tricked our ancestors and was cruel to them, forcing them to put their babies out of their homes, so that they would die. 
Jacob heard that Laban's sons were saying, “Jacob has taken everything that belonged to our father. All his wealth has come from what our father owned.” 
The believers in Rome heard about us and came as far as the towns of Market of Appius and Three Inns to meet us. When Paul saw them, he thanked God and was greatly encouraged. 
I was afraid, so I went off and hid your money in the ground. Look! Here is what belongs to you.’ 
I will punish Moab, and they will know that I am the LORD.” 
Then Moses answered the LORD, “But suppose the Israelites do not believe me and will not listen to what I say. What shall I do if they say that you did not appear to me?” 
Death also came to the righteous nation, for an epidemic struck many of them while they were in the desert, but your anger did not last long. 
Judith was a very beautiful woman. Her husband had left her gold and silver, servants and slaves, livestock and fields. She continued to supervise the estate, 
Jesus turned, saw them following him, and asked, “What are you looking for?” : They answered, “Where do you live, Rabbi?” (This word means “Teacher”.) 
Enoch pleased the Lord and was taken up into heaven. He became an inspiration for repentance for all time to come. 
The LORD gave Moses the following regulations 
A soldier on active service wants to please his commanding officer and so does not get mixed up in the affairs of civilian life. 
But you still left me and worshipped other gods, so I am not going to rescue you again. 
The LORD has prepared his sword in heaven, and now it will strike Edom, those people whom he has condemned to destruction. 
The official record of their descendants by families listed 20,200 men eligible for military service. 
Paul wanted to take Timothy along with him, so he circumcised him. He did so because all the Jews who lived in those places knew that Timothy's father was Greek. 
What is your complaint? Why have you rebelled against me? 
I am burning with fever : and I am near to death. 
Arrogance and injustice are hated by both the Lord and human beings. 
A teacher of the Law came up and tried to trap Jesus. “Teacher,” he asked, “what must I do to receive eternal life?” 
We will provide for the temple worship the following: the sacred bread, the daily grain offering, the animals to be burnt each day as sacrifices, the sacred offerings for Sabbaths, New Moon Festivals, and other festivals, the other sacred offerings, the offerings to take away the sins of Israel, and anything else needed for the Temple. 
For Christ died for sins once and for all, a good man on behalf of sinners, in order to lead you to God. He was put to death physically, but made alive spiritually, 
Have I now become your enemy by telling you the truth? 
Listen, earth! As punishment for all their schemes I am bringing ruin on these people, because they have rejected my teaching and have not obeyed my words. 
All King Solomon's cups were made of gold, and all the utensils in the Hall of the Forest of Lebanon were of pure gold. Silver was not considered valuable in Solomon's day. 
Stay in your camp and keep your soldiers in their quarters. Just command your men to blockade the springs at the foot of the mountains, 
and said, “There are fifty of us here, all strong men. Let us go and look for your master. Maybe the Spirit of the LORD has carried him away and left him on some mountain or in some valley.” : “No, you must not go,” Elisha answered. 
So Jesus asked them, “How much bread have you got? Go and see.” : When they found out, they told him, “Five loaves and also two fish.” 
When you come into the land that the LORD is giving you and you harvest your corn, take the first sheaf to the priest. 
Rehoboam married Mahalath, whose father was Jerimoth son of David, and whose mother was Abihail, the daughter of Eliab and granddaughter of Jesse. 
Yes, I was great, greater than anyone else who had ever lived in Jerusalem, and my wisdom never failed me. 
I am Wisdom, and I have insight; : I have knowledge and sound judgement. 
Evil people listen to evil ideas, and liars listen to lies. 
He covered it with pure gold inside and out and put a gold border all round it. 
Husbands, love your wives and do not be harsh with them. 
I have provided all kinds of grain and all kinds of fruit for you to eat; 
A light breeze touched my face, : and my hair bristled with fright. 
And there were many people suffering from a dreaded skin disease who lived in Israel during the time of the prophet Elisha; yet not one of them was healed, but only Naaman the Syrian.” 
But now our strength is gone. There is nothing at all to eat — nothing but this manna day after day!” 
the LORD said to Moses, “Tell them that each day for a period of twelve days one of the leaders is to present his gifts for the dedication of the altar.” 
I am not afraid in times of danger : when I am surrounded by enemies, 
Far from where anyone lives : Or human feet ever travel, : They dig the shafts of mines. : There they work in loneliness, : Clinging to ropes in the pits. 
The notice of the accusation against him said: “The King of the Jews”. 
I will perform miracles in the sky above : and wonders on the earth below. : There will be blood, fire, and thick smoke; 
Bagoas let out a yell. He screamed, tore his clothes, and started groaning and weeping. 
so that everyone who believes in him may have eternal life.  
After everyone had eaten enough, they lightened the ship by throwing all the wheat into the sea. 
He has given no one enough power to describe what he has done, and no one can investigate it completely. 
It became so deep that it covered the highest mountains; 
The LORD says, “I am the LORD your God, who led you out of Egypt. You have no God but me. I alone am your saviour. 
Then I gave this message to King Zedekiah in Jerusalem 
If a man takes a second wife, he must continue to give his first wife the same amount of food and clothing and the same rights that she had before. 
“When the LORD heard this, he said to me, ‘I have heard what these people said, and they are right. 
He ordered the people to sit down on the grass; then he took the five loaves and the two fish, looked up to heaven, and gave thanks to God. He broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the people. 
The tenants seized the slave, beat him, and sent him back without a thing.  
The LORD commanded Moses 
“Make fifteen crossbars of acacia wood, five for the frames on one side of the Tent, 
For some widows have already turned away to follow Satan. 
First he said, “You neither want nor are you pleased with sacrifices and offerings or with animals burnt on the altar and the sacrifices to take away sins.” He said this even though all these sacrifices are offered according to the Law. 
and answered, “May Your Majesty live for ever! How can I help looking sad when the city where my ancestors are buried is in ruins and its gates have been destroyed by fire?” 
Only those people were covered by this heavy night, a foretaste of the darkness of death that was waiting for them. They were a burden to themselves that was even heavier than the darkness.
But he ignored the advice of the older men and went instead to the young men who had grown up with him and who were now his advisers. 
So then, whoever rejects this teaching is not rejecting a human being, but God, who gives you his Holy Spirit. 
Abraham moved from Mamre to the southern part of Canaan and lived between Kadesh and Shur. Later, while he was living in Gerar, 
Gideon then realized that it was the LORD's angel he had seen, and he said in terror, “Sovereign LORD! I have seen your angel face to face!” 
When they arrived, he said to them, “You know how I spent the whole time I was with you, from the first day I arrived in the province of Asia. 
He blessed them all and told the creatures that live in the water to reproduce, and to fill the sea, and he told the birds to increase in number. 
Omri sinned against the LORD more than any of his predecessors. 
As fire burns the forest, : as flames set the hills on fire, 
How happy that servant is if his master finds him doing this when he comes home!  
Every year Elkanah went from Ramah to worship and offer sacrifices to the LORD Almighty at Shiloh, where Hophni and Phinehas, the two sons of Eli, were priests of the LORD. 
Draw water to prepare for a siege, and strengthen your fortresses! Trample the clay to make bricks, and get the brick moulds ready! 
The king said, “I dreamt that I was standing on the bank of the Nile, 
You will help me, because I do what is right; : you will keep me in your presence for ever. 
Those who survive will die from disease, : and even their widows will not mourn their death. 
Do not leave any of the food until the following morning and do not break any of the animal's bones. Observe the Passover according to all the regulations. 
Aware of his situation, he went to the home of Mary, the mother of John Mark, where many people had gathered and were praying. 
The brook will supply you with water to drink, and I have commanded ravens to bring you food there.” 
All the officials and soldiers, and even all of David's other sons promised to be loyal to Solomon as king. 
But they insisted even more strongly, “With his teaching he is starting a riot among the people all through Judea. He began in Galilee and now has come here.” 
Then you will remember all the disgraceful things you did and how you defiled yourselves. You will be disgusted with yourselves because of all the evil things you did. 
If you see your brother or sister commit a sin that does not lead to death, you should pray to God, who will give them life. This applies to those whose sins do not lead to death. But there is sin which leads to death, and I do not say that you should pray to God about that. 
When evening came, people brought to Jesus many who had demons in them. Jesus drove out the evil spirits with a word and healed all who were sick. 
I trust in the LORD for safety. : How foolish of you to say to me, : “Fly away like a bird to the mountains, 
Then you will know how to behave properly, and your words will show that you have knowledge. 
Explain your law to me, and I will obey it; : I will keep it with all my heart. 
“If someone has been put to death for a crime and his body is hung on a post, 
You know my heart. : You have come to me at night; : you have examined me completely : and found no evil desire in me. 
“As for the sacrifices which you and your ancestors, your kings and your leaders, and the people of the land offered in the towns of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem — do you think that the LORD did not know about them or that he forgot them? 
Then Moses told Aaron everything that the LORD had said when he told him to return to Egypt; he also told him about the miracles which the LORD had ordered him to perform. 
They intermarried with them and worshipped their gods. 
As soon as Zimri became king he killed off all the members of Baasha's family. Every male relative and friend was put to death. 
God is strong and always victorious; : both deceived and deceiver are in his power. 
So he took them home with him and fed their donkeys. His guests washed their feet and had a meal. 
No man is to have sexual relations with another man; God hates that. 
Whoever sins is guilty of breaking God's law, because sin is a breaking of the law. 
Young people, enjoy your youth. Be happy while you are still young. Do what you want to do, and follow your heart's desire. But remember that God is going to judge you for whatever you do. 
Those who belong to the earth are like the one who was made of earth; those who are of heaven are like the one who came from heaven. 
Obey all the LORD's laws and commands, so that you may live in safety in the land. 
Caleb had another concubine, Maacah, who bore him two sons, Sheber and Tirhanah. 
“The LORD made you a priest in place of Jehoiada, and you are now the chief officer in the Temple. It is your duty to see that every madman who pretends to be a prophet is placed in chains with an iron collar round his neck. 
I wrote you that letter because I wanted to find out how well you had stood the test and whether you are always ready to obey my instructions. 
Together they will attack the Philistines on the west and plunder the people who live to the east. They will conquer the people of Edom and Moab, and the people of Ammon will obey them. 
Isaac had come into the wilderness of “The Well of the Living One who Sees Me” and was staying in the southern part of Canaan. 
It is not appropriate for a sinner to sing hymns of praise, because his worship is insincere. 
Take care of a fig tree and you will have figs to eat. Servants who take care of their master will be honoured. 
and scatter their descendants among the heathen, : letting them die in foreign countries. 
I cry out to you, LORD, : because the pastures and trees are dried up, : as though a fire had burnt them. 
If she agrees and also offers to bring water for my camels, may she be the one that you have chosen as the wife for my master's son.’ 
“Mortal man,” he said, “denounce the king of Egypt. Tell him how he and all the land of Egypt will be punished. 
The second most important commandment is like it: ‘Love your neighbour as you love yourself.’  
“I am now making my covenant with you and with your descendants, 
You work for something with all your wisdom, knowledge, and skill, and then you have to leave it all to someone who hasn't had to work for it. It is useless, and it isn't right! 
brought their offerings to the LORD: six wagons and twelve oxen, a wagon for every two leaders and an ox for each leader. After they had presented them, 
His disciples did not understand this at the time; but when Jesus had been raised to glory, they remembered that the scripture said this about him and that they had done this for him. 
Then the LORD came down in the cloud and spoke to him. He took some of the spirit he had given to Moses and gave it to the seventy leaders. When the spirit came on them, they began to shout like prophets, but not for long. 
Moses and Aaron shall see to it that the Gershonites perform all the duties and carry everything that Aaron and his sons assign to them. 
Through faith women received their dead relatives raised back to life. : Others, refusing to accept freedom, died under torture in order to be raised to a better life. 
May God strike me dead if I don't kill every last one of those men before morning!” 
All these gods are useless; : they can do nothing at all — : these idols are weak and powerless.”
If any of my people or a prophet or a priest even uses the words ‘the LORD's burden’, I will punish them and their families. 
The most amazing of all my creatures! : Only his Creator can defeat him. 
Solomon is coming, carried on his throne; : sixty soldiers form the bodyguard, : the finest soldiers in Israel. 
Syria on the east and Philistia on the west have opened their mouths to devour Israel. Yet even so the LORD's anger is not ended; his hand is still stretched out to punish. 
and may serve there as a priest of the LORD his God, like the other Levites who are serving there. 
Don't let anything worry you or cause you pain. You aren't going to be young very long.
Everything else that King Joash did is recorded in The History of the Kings of Judah. 
The woman said to him, “I know that the Messiah will come, and when he comes, he will tell us everything.” 
A terrible day is coming; : no other day can compare with it — : a time of distress for my people, : but they will survive.” 
Wisdom shines bright and never grows dim; those who love her and look for her can easily find her. 
(In the third year that Cyrus was emperor of Persia, a message was revealed to Daniel, who is also called Belteshazzar. The message was true but extremely hard to understand. It was explained to him in a vision.) 
and so we look forward to possessing the rich blessings that God keeps for his people. He keeps them for you in heaven, where they cannot decay or spoil or fade away. 
Then they sweep on like the wind and are gone, these men whose power is their god.” 
I felt secure and said to myself, : “I will never be defeated.” 
if they disregard my instructions : and do not keep my commandments, 
they will hold to the outward form of our religion, but reject its real power. Keep away from such people. 
So I hope that the LORD will forgive me when I accompany my king to the temple of Rimmon, the god of Syria, and worship him. Surely the LORD will forgive me!” 
If I counted them, they would be more than the grains of sand. : When I awake, I am still with you. 
This will happen because you have followed the evil practices of King Omri and of his son, King Ahab. You have continued their policies, and so I will bring you to ruin, and everyone will despise you. People everywhere will treat you with contempt.”
The whole Israelite community set out from Elim, and on the fifteenth day of the second month after they had left Egypt, they came to the desert of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai. 
If they sow in the field of their natural desires, from it they will gather the harvest of death; if they sow in the field of the Spirit, from the Spirit they will gather the harvest of eternal life. 
The surrounding nations insult us; : they laugh at us and mock us. 
So I will have him whipped and let him go.” 
You will always have poor people with you, but you will not always have me.  
My companion Titus, even though he is Greek, was not forced to be circumcised, 
but Jacob did not send Joseph's full-brother Benjamin with them, because he was afraid that something might happen to him. 
I will give you as many descendants as there are stars in the sky, and I will give them all this territory. All the nations will ask me to bless them as I have blessed your descendants. 
have brought this on you. You were a prostitute for the nations and defiled yourself with their idols. 
People who were oppressed or in debt or dissatisfied went to him, about 400 men in all, and he became their leader. 
None of the money, however, was used to pay for making silver cups, bowls, trumpets, or tools for tending the lamps, or any other article of silver or of gold. 
Isaiah prayed to the LORD, and the LORD made the shadow go back ten steps on the stairway set up by King Ahaz. 
the Son of Man will send out his angels to gather up out of his Kingdom all those who cause people to sin and all others who do evil things,  
But I have prayed for you, Simon, that your faith will not fail. And when you turn back to me, you must strengthen your brothers.” 
“He was wearing a cloak made of animal skins, tied with a leather belt,” they answered. : “It's Elijah!” the king exclaimed. 
Samuel said to the cook, “Bring the piece of meat I gave you, which I told you to set aside.” 
and to shine from heaven on all those who live in the dark shadow of death, : to guide our steps into the path of peace.” 
Our ancestors ate manna in the desert, just as the scripture says, ‘He gave them bread from heaven to eat.’ ” 
But at the same time he made them slaves, to cut wood and carry water for the people of Israel and for the LORD's altar. To this day they have continued to do this work in the place where the LORD has chosen to be worshipped.
These are the names of the cities from the territories of Judah and Simeon which were given 
How clearly the sky reveals God's glory! : How plainly it shows what he has done! 
But the Pharisees said, “It is the chief of the demons who gives Jesus the power to drive out demons.” 
Early the next morning Abimelech called all his officials and told them what had happened, and they were terrified. 
In the meantime the boy Samuel continued to serve the LORD, wearing a sacred linen apron. 